My family and I stayed here while we were visiting Chicago. This was a perfect location to many of the things we wanted to do and was easy to get around. It was in a safe neighborhood and was great accomodations. The staff was friendly and went the "extra mile" to make sure we had everything we needed. The beds were comfortable. We would definitely stay here again. 
WARNING! My stay at the Talbott Hotel will go down in history as one of my worst experiences staying in hotels. I was excited for a weekend getaway with a few friends. After receiving a few positive recommendations and looking at their website we decided to stay at the Talbott. They were promoting up to $30 breakfast credit per day. And breakfast is my favorite meal so this was already looking like a great time. Upon our arrival we were greeted by an employee (which we wouldn't have known had he not told us) that was not only rude but made sexual advances at one of the ladies on our group. Once we talked with a manager about the incident outside he assured us that he would take care of the issue and even upgraded us to King suites instead of the double size rooms we originally reserved. If someone had blindfolded me and took me into one of these rooms I would have sworn we were at Motel 6, not a luxury hotel in Chicago. The linens were stained, room smelled of smoke and had another odor that was similar to old cat pee. I was truly disgusted. After a night out on the town we came back to our disgusting rooms to get some sleep. The next morning I was excited for our breakfast that was highly recommended by the hotel and other guests. I have to say it was one of the worst breakfasts I have ever eaten. The toast was stale, eggs were made from powder instead of real eggs, and the juice they served was sour. I would never recommend this as a place to stay. I would suggest the Red Roof Inn over this place anytime.
I recently stayed at the Hard Rock Hotel in Chicago while in town for business, and enjoyed my stay very much. I stayed in a room with a king bed, which was very comfortable. The room had all the things I needed for my stay, which was nice. The only thing is I think there was a party on my floor, but they quieted down quickly enough. My room even had an internet connection! I also had dinner one night at the China Grill, and it was an amazing meal! Overall, I had a great stay, and will return next time I am in Chicago.
O.M.G best hotel ever ! i've stayed at various hotels in the area and the service has been really suckish. evan at one hotel i stayed at they had a molded sandwhich under the bed , how gross and i could of really got sick ! but this hotel was the perfect location right by the beach and by all the clubs . ohh . and the pump room , the best food i've evr had at a hotel . i evan got to take a picture with Queen Anne ! i will never regret coming to this hotel! i loved this hotel so much me and my bridemaid's stayed here . and it's just walking distance from all the popular food places and clubs . ( all the places to be at least )
We became an Ambassador member just before spending Mother's day at the Chicago Intercontinental, and received a room upgrade to an exceptional room. Our Saturday night stay was the BEST $99 we ever spent (Mother's day special). The welcoming chocolate covered strawberries began the weekend on a high note; the concierge continued it by arranging a wonderful dinner (moderately priced) , and the great Sunday breakfast topped it all off. All in all, Mother's day in Chicago was Super. We loved it enough to be back for Labor Day weekend (another "package"). 
We stay at the Palmer House when we attend conferences in Chicago. It is a stately building. But this year, there were ... problems we have not had before. First, they now have wi-fi available, but it is not free. The cost is $7.50 per hour. On-line it indicated that Hilton hotels charge about $4, but this was almost double. Many hotels have free wi-fi. Wi-fi is wi-fi, so the level of service is not a factor that could justify this exorbitant cost. They also charge for their fitness center, even when you are only going to use the machines. There is no business center in-house for copies, etc. Our bed was against a wall that separated us from the bathroom in the next room. It did not separate us from the bathroom noises. When someone took a shower (at 5:30 a.m.), the pipes "sung" like old pipes do,but very loudly. An empty wine glass sat outside someone's room door for days without being picked up by housekeeping. The concierge desk had only one person and there was always a line. If you called down, you were put on hold while they dealt with the people in the line. The staff were all very nice, and the location can't be beat, but the luxury prices for normal services felt like a ripoff this year. I doubt we'll return....
The Amalfi Hotel has become my absolute favorite place to stay when I visit Chicago. This place really knows how to treat their guests. They serve a complimentary breakfast on every floor and even have iPod docking stations in the room! If you want to watch a movie you can just borrow it from their collection. I took advantage of the free wi-fi AND the plush bathrobes. While I stayed there I had to try the spa services that were offered. Wonderful experience! The staff really made me feel comfortable during my stay and I will definitely be staying there again on my next trip to Chicago. 
I recently stayed at the Hyatt Regency in Chicago for business, but extended my stay through the weekend because i loved it! The accommodations exceeded my expectations. My bed was very comfortable, the room was big enough, and the shower was so relaxing. I had a great meal in the chop shop and the coffee was delicious at J's express. The fitness center was clean, and inspiring. I will recommend this hotel to others while in the area. 
This hotel has the worst rooms we have stayed in during the last 10 years. The first room they gave us was a shock. TINY and the bathroom was a joke,, you had to step inside, move out of the way just to shut the door. The furniture is disgusting and all the wood trim was VERY beat up and painted over about 100 times. so they transfered us to the 'executive suite' That room had a tiny bathroom.. I mean TINY! The furniture was hideous and dirty. It was on the 3rd level so you heard every conversation on the street below and traffic was loud. The only impressive part is the lobby.. but don't be fooled. because after that .. the floors above look like they need a major overhaul.. and the rooms were not worth even $100 per night. we stayed there a year ago because we got stuck through Priceline deal. I don't think we want to do Priceline again only because they have the Knickerbocker as a 4 star Hotel and we don't ever want to go back there again. 2 Stars at best for the dumpy Knickerbocker. They should be ashamed of themselves for even allowing guests to stay in those rooms. Boomer. Naperville, IL
On a recent stay at the Fairmont Chicago Millemmium Park Hotel I was appalled at the service I received at such a supposedly high end hotel. When I arrived I had to wait in the lobby for 15 minutes before someone came to the front desk to check me in. Apparently the desk clerk was on a personal phone call with her boyfriend and just had to know where he was going and who he was with. Finally I was given the key to my non-smoking room away from the vending area. Much to my chagrin my room was right next to the vending area and I heard other guests going back and forth to the ice machine until nearly midnight. And the room was obviously a room for smokers. The blankets on the bed and the pillows reaked of cigarette smoke. I, of course complained, but was told that was the only room available as they had booked every room for a conference but I was welcome to check out and go to another hotel. After a fitfull night's sleep I awoke to children running up and down the hallway. Their parents were no where in sight. My shower was cold and had no pressure. I was given two towels one of which had not been laundered. I could not wait to check out and informed the manager on duty of my complaints and told him I would not be recommending this hotel to anyone and would go online to write my review so anyone interested would see it. I cannot understand how such a highly rated hotel could be so far from the mark.
I loved staying at the Hard Rock Hotel in Chicago, not only is it an amazingly friendly atmosphere, but they give me the option to bring my pet with me. They are a dog friendly hotel, it costs $55.00 a night for the dog to stay with you, but that beats the costs of paying a kennel to keep or your dog or a neighbor to watch them for you. I loved this option. They also give your animals a gift bag filled with treats, food, bowls and doggy clean up bags. I higly reccomend this hotel if you are looking for a place to bring your four-legged friend with you when you travel. 
While making the obligatory trip to the Chicago area to visit family, we decided to make it fun for the teenage members of our group and reserved a couple of rooms at the Hard Rock Hotel Chicago. What a great decision! The rooms are very upscale at a reasonable price with great amenities. And, according the younger members of the family, "very cool"! We can't wait to come back.
Overall the hotel is very nice. The rooms are spacious and well-appointed, but they tend to be aging or dated. My bathroom was particularly below average, with old wallpaper and a dingy tub with a crummy showerhead. The toilet paper roll holder was pulling out of the wall and its screws were exposed. The conceirge recommended an expensive and mediocre restaurant. I hate it when they do that- it makes me suspect they're getting kickbacks from places that otherwise don't get enough business on their own. Breakfast was very good. It's a relatively large european-style spread.
It's so frustrating when a hotel posts a deal prominently on its website, claiming said deal is available on certain dates. But, when you call to make a reservation based on that deal, they tell you it's not available. There are rooms available, but not the deal. Then they try to condescendingly tell you they can only sell so many rooms at such a deal. I get that. Then just SAY that on the website. "Here's a great deal . . . but only a small number of people will actually get it." So much for the great reviews about service . . . I couldn't even get past the first phone call without being frustrated and annoyed. Bad form, Conrad, bad form.
An excellent vacation destination. Clean rooms and many nice features. Superb location and proximity to local attractions. Staff is always friendly and eager to help. Highly recommended to anyone looking to travel to this area. 
Beautiful hotel in chicago. I visited this hotel on my honeymoon with my wife. They are pet friendly and even provide in room spa services. I would recommend hotel monaco if you are looking to stay in a luxury hotel in chicago.
Elegant and modernized hotel with great staff. Location is wonderful. The health club located in the hotel had everything needed to get my complete workout. I will be staying there again due to the wonderful experience and decent prices.
Perfect location, clean and courteous staff all added up to a great stay. Its in an area with plenty of stores ( The Mile) and restaurants. Hotel lobby is on the 6th floor and the elevator to get there was annoyingly slow but overall I would highly recommend this place regardless if your there with a family, friends or on business. The subway to Wrigley is a 1/2 block away from the front door. 
At the InterContinental Chicago, you pay for more than a room. You pay for an experience. Let me elaborate. I was a bit reluctant to pay a premium for location and amenities. Like any novice traveller to Chicago, I saw the mass glut of cheap accommodations out in the suburbs, and those were originally what I set my sights on. Price is a powerful signal, and the sheer discount of those options drew me in. But after doing a bit of research, I realised that distance does have its costs. The price of transit in the Chicagoland area isn't free. And it's far from what I'm used to. Car use is price prohibitive. (I knew that originally, which is why I wasn't going to drive.) But the sting of using the automobile (parking, congestion, toll roads, etc.) gets shoved off onto taxi fares and auto rental. So, I ultimately had to end up looking for a place well connected with mass transit. But mass transit has its costs too, which meant that staying at a focal point downtown had its advantages. That's what originally drew me to InterContinental. But InterContinental is much more than the right room at the right place. The decor of the rooms and the amenities available to the guest are unsurpassable. I was travelling on international business, so the ease with which I could transact in foreign currency was a draw. (They had a currency exchange right there on the premises.) And the fact that massages, dry cleaning, and event planning were available in-house was a huge plus. My work gets me tied up in knots. It also leaves little time for doing chores. So the ability to grab a massage while my suits were being finished was a relief for me. But, on top of all that, the event planning was what put InterContinental over the top. Being able to coordinate a comprehensive tour of Chicago while completing my business and managing my personal life was a weight off my shoulders--and something I won't forget. In the end, if you're a newcomer to Chicago staying in a time-crunch, the InterContinental is for you. The pricetag of rooming downtown can seem prohibitive, but when you factor in the convenience and savings in marginal costs, it's nothing in the end. And the InterContinental is not only price-competitive with the other downtown options, it also makes staying downtown the convenience and thrill it should be.
The room was very spacious with very nice, colorful decorating. The beds felt like lying on a cloud, and there were four pillows on each bed, two fiberfill and two down so you could choose which you like better. The bathroom was very nice also. Overall, I was very pleased with the stay. You had to show your room key to get in after ten p.m. I thought that was a good security issue. It has a great location too, close to downtown. I would recommend it. The decorations were very classy. Most hotels have two of the same framed art, boring bedspreads and lumpy pillows. The Hyatt Regency was just the opposite.
Wow! Loved the Ambassador East Hotel in Chicago! It was so close to all the great sights of Chicago like Navy Pier, Lake Michigan, and all the fabulous dining. The hotel was very classy and the rooms were furnished in a traditional, but cozy manner. The entire family loved it, even the dog...because they are also pet friendly at the Ambassador East Hotel! We loved the restaurant there, the Pump Room was great, something to please even the pickiest of our eaters. We were there on a family get-away, but asked to see a larger "suite". The suites were gorgeous. I can't wait to tell our friends about this place! Our next business trip to Chicago, we are booking at this hotel. They have the perfect conference rooms and we LOVE the service! We are definitely coming back!
This is one of the best hotels I have ever been in. I went there to see about scheduling my reception party, and was amazed at the architecture of the building, the interior design of the rooms, and the massive spacing provided for each room. Now I recommend this hotel to my associates to hold their important business meetings in the James Club, so that after the meetings, we can partake in a nice meal and drinks. Which brings me to my next point. The James has some of the BEST food I have ever eaten!!! The James Private Club, I feel was made for the elite and upper class. Very classy, very elegant. The customer service is outstanding. I recommend this hotel to anyone needing to hold a reception, business meeting, or just need to have a day at the spa. 5 stars all the way!!! 
First let me say wonderful!! My wife and i were refered this Hotel by a friend. After traveling to Chicago many time we have had many experiences good and bad with different hotels. We were amazed with the Knickerbocker, we felt like royalty from our first step on the property. Everyone was willing to make our stay rememberable. This Hotel made a routine trip to Chicago a dream Vacation. I can not wait to return...
I visited the Hotel Allegro Chicago while I was on vacation with my daughter. I booked the room and was very excited because the website alludes to a very lavish interior with amenities far superior to the surrounding hotels. I was particularly excited there was a fitness center because I work out on a regular basis and I would not have to give that up on my vacation. Let me start by saying the staff was very rude and I was very dissappointed they could not respect that I was very tired after traveling a very long way. I booked the hotel stay for over a week, which was very expensive, and that seemed to not matter to them at ALL, despite that fact that I was travelling with a small child as well! They did nothing to accommodate me, and the woman at the front desk even refused rudely to take my calls or answer any questions about nearby restaraunts insisting that even though she worked there she "didn't know the area" To tope it all off, the fitness center was under construction so I never got to use it. Worst hotel experience of my life, I will never go back. - Sandy D.
the James Hotel in Chicago is by far one of the best hotels that My family and I have ever had the pleasure of staying at. The room service is the best in the area, not to mention the spa in the hotel is to die for. The lobby and the reception area is very contemporary. This is a great place to take the family to relax. I would recommend this hotel to anyone. 5 stars! 
I have recently stayed at the Hyatt Regency Chicago Hotel and although I have stayed there a variety of times before, for both business and pleasure, my experience this time was particularly poor. From right when I checked in to the day I left I felt like I was constantly around unfriendly people who didn't want to be at work their to do their jobs. My room was dirty the whole time even though the maid came every day, and when I was trying to sleep at night it was so loud in the hallways, I couldn't sleep. For my next visit to Chicago I won't be staying at the Hyatt Regency.
This is a stylish hotel located right on North Michigan Avenue, a five minute walk from the Orange "Loop" line that will get you to and from Midway Airport. Forget about taking a taxi: the train is a $2 ride and less than 40 minutes away. Our room (1802) was immaculate and spacious (350 sq ft, we were told). Decorated in grays and white, the room was comfortable and soothing, not jarring. On the other hand, we found the lighting to be very poor and had trouble reading, finding keys, etc. No kidding. The bathroom was also quite dark and it didnt have a heating lamp. On the positive side, however, there were Aveda products in the bathroom, the windows were huge, so during the day there was tons of natural light, and no issues with darkness. The king size bed was very firm, but had a plush pillow top which made it very comfortable and inviting. We had a largish TV with a DVD player. There is a safe and munchies. The gym is perfect, equipped with treadmills, ellipticals, bikes and weights. It is open 24/7 and there is video surveillance for safety. There are towels, water, headphones, disposable ear pads, and complimentary green apples. Suggestion: if you are on a floor below the 22nd, take the elevator up to 22nd, then down to L2 to get to the gym. This way you dont have to traverse the lobby. The front desk staff is amiable, and very attentive. I read some other reviews about nasty personnel, but did not have that experience at all. I got a free newspaper with a smile, a free stamp when I needed it, change and all the coffee I could tolerate in the morning. The Hard Rock is located less than a 20 minute walk from the Water Tower, the Drury Theater, John Hancock, and magnificent mile. For those who like a thrifty breakfast, we recommend Gourmet Pantry at 155 N. Michigan Avenue [--]. This deli made a delicious egg on a toasted roll with butter on a Sunday morning, no less: $1.99. The hotel has a breakfast buffet for $15.00 per person, but we did not partake of it. We would stay at the Hard Rock again, and think it is great for people with "tweens." Not sure about the toddler set, though. 
As others have said, once all the construction works are completed I suspect that the prices this hotel can (legitimately) charge will put it out of our price range. Which will be a pity because it is an excellent hotel, & the location couldn't be better. The room was very spacious, with separate sitting & study areas & a nice bathroom. Only 3 minor points: downstairs they were serving a free basic breakfast (coffee & pastries), but we only knew of it on our last morning - nobody had mentioned this; the cost of internet - $9.99 - is a bit dear especially when lots of motels now offer it free; there was only powered milk in the rooms, which wasn't that nice. But none of these really spolied a really enjoyable stay. 
First let me say, the front office people at Hotel Monaco are wonderful and the location of the hotel was just what I'd hoped. There are some other problems; the furnishings are quite rundown, and housekeeping wasn't very helpful. We booked a suite and the sofa bed, chair and coffee table in the living room area had all had some very hard use. I've attached pictures, so you can see the considerable gap in the sofa and the lack of pillows. Comfortable it was not! The chair bottom is all broken down too. I invited one of the Assistant Managers to view our furniture, and a slight adjustment was made in our rate. As to housekeeping, we had ordered an in-room coffee service (which Kimpton's web site says is there, but you have to specifically request) and at no time did housekeeping leave us coffee. We had to call the front desk every day. And, housekeeping neglected our fish and on our next to last day we found it floating dead at the top of the fish bowl. I had requested water be added to the bowl when I noticed it going down and my note was disregarded. These things may not matter to you, but if you plan to spend a week, like we did, you might want to be comfortable. The bedroom and bathroom were superior; just the living room was bad.
As a former Chicagoan, I'm appalled at the Amalfi Hotel Chicago. First of all, I was expecting luxury and hospitality, neither of which I received. There's an Experience Designer who is supposed to be like a "personal concierge," but my experience with my ED was terrible. I felt like he was trying to pressure me into staying more days than I wanted to. Not only that, but I couldn't understand what he was saying most of the time because he was talking so fast. When I finally got to my room, I was disappointed with the quality of the furniture and the room's cleanliness. I had to ask for a maid to come and give me clean towels because some of the towels in the bathroom were damp. On top of that, the bed was messily done; I could have done a better job on my own bed at home. I was angry at this point, because I was paying a lot of money for every night I was staying at Amalfi, and I didn't expect to be greeted with wet towels. I needed to use the Wi-Fi to download some important documents, and the internet was surprisingly slow. Even a very basic hotel or motel could have offered better, maybe even faster internet access. When I finally checked out of the Amalfi, I made sure that my supposed personal concierge knew all of the problems I'd had with my room and the hotel. I was glad to see the Amalfi getting smaller in the mirror as I drove away!
When we were stranded in Chicago for two days since our flight home was canceled, our airline put us in touch with hotels.com who found us the room at the Sheraton Towers. After a long and frustrating day that ended up with us still in Chicago, arriving at the Sheraton was a joy. The entire staff was wonderful. The bell staff was great helping us (finally) let go of the heavy bags, Jonathan at check in was very helpful and had us in a room which he upgraded for us in no time. We enjoyed the location and the facilities of this property during our unexpected stay and would highly recommend this location to others. We can't say enough about the staff. If we are in Chicago in the future we will definitely return here! 
My family and I have just had a two week holiday in Chicago, and we stayed for a week at the Hilton Towers. We had a fantastic time and enjoyed every minute of our stay at this incredible hotel. The sheer size of the place is breathtaking and the atmosphere is very friendly and hospitable. If you prefer discreet modern boutiquey-type hotels, maybe this wouldn't be your thing. However if you enjoy old style glamour and glitz, you will be bowled over by this hotel. The place literally sparkles thanks to the enormous chandeliers that are everywhere in the lobby. Tons of celebs have stayed here over the decades and the history of the hotel and past guests etc is fascinating. We got a very reasonable rate for our stay and could not fault anything about this very special place! 
My fiancee and I were looking for a modern, upscale venue for our wedding reception. We have found the perfect location at The James. From the ballroom to the personal attention to detail, each step was handled with care. Now that we have locked in our date, we are more excited than ever. Thank you staff at The James for making our day even more special!
Chicago is my favorite city visit. I wanted to share this special city with a new love and booked us a room at the Swissotel. It is advertised as close to downtown and close to the museums of Chicago. I wanted to share my new love. It was indeed close to the museums but to get to either the shopping district or the Chicago Art Institute it was a long walk, full of detours, and it was not easy to grab a cab. While the rooms seemed to be luxuriously decorated the beds were uncomfortable and the rooms just were not very clean. The Room Service was slow, the food arrived cold, and the total experience was way so expensive for what we got. I do not think I have ever experienced the level of noise in such a "grand hotel" as the Swissotel seems. I would not recommend the Swissotel because disappointment, noise, and cold food should just not cost that much.
The Good - excellent location, neighborhood is pretty and quiet, close to shops, restaurants, the waterfront, close to train/subway station, etc The Bad - Very old decor, which isn't a big deal, but the tv was smaller than my PC monitor. We were supposed to have a king bed (anniversary trip) we were given two double beds and told we would be switched - that never happened. The shower/tub was stopped up so bad that after I showered my husband waited over one hour for the tub to drain before he could shower. Who wants to shower in someone else's dirty water even if it is your wife. The indifferent - room was a decent size, bed linens were okay, staff was mediocre to marginally rude
The Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers is one of the worse hotels I have stayed in. Everything from the lobby to the staff to the room experience was horrible. As I walked in to the lobby, the lobby had a fowl smell, similar to rotten eggs. The staff wasn't much better, especially room service, where it took over 30 minutes just to make my request for more towels. The baggage handlers gave me rude service and when checking in or out, they almost just refuse to provide service. The room I stayed in was ill maintained and looked like nothing like in the pictures. The windows were dirty and I couldn't see anything outside the window. The room smelled like someone soiled the room and there were ants crawling on the tabletops. If I had to give any suggestion on this hotel, you should just avoid this hotel all together. Even a cheap motel has better standards than this hotel.
Our room was on the third floor so there was some street noise - but it certainly didn't spoil our 4 nights in this lovely hotel. Wine tasting evening went down extremely well after a day seeing the sights of the city!! Our goldish was called Oliver - nobody could believe we had our very own goldfish in our room!! All the staff were really helpful and welcoming, making our stay here very relaxing and comfortable. Would certainly recommend this hotel. 
Very beautiful hotel. The historic features of this hotel make it absolutely amazing. This hotel offers many great guest accommodations of which I enjoyed the spacious, tidy rooms. The staff here are very friendly, helpful, and professional. The concierge went out of her way to make sure we knew about the area and not just what was in the hotel. I especially enjoyed the service at The Lockwood Restaurant here. Our server was excellent and the food was delicious! I must say this hotel exceeded my expectations. All in all, my stay was awesome!
Spent three nights in Chicago at this property. First of all, I have to say that it would be hard to imagine a better location as it is perfectly situated on the Magnificent Mile close to terrific restaurants, the Art Institute and Orchestra Hall. The hotel has two sides - the historic tower and a new wing. The rooms are larger on the historic side but generally are looking a little tired. This property needs to be renovated. Some observations: The junior suite I had was laid out strangely. A small bedroom and smaller sitting room separated by a corridor off of which was the very large bathroom. The mirror over the sink was not over the sink but skewed to the right - made shaving a challenge and messy. While descending in the elevator one morning, it started shaking so violently that I could barely stand up. It stopped on the 11th floor and I was greeted by an extremely worried looking hotel employee who had a technician shut it down. (This experience was far more powerful than coffee in helping me wake up - an adrenaline rush certainly cures sleepiness!) Reports from my group were of sinks stopped up, exposed bolts in rooms, and generally things not working. Now the good news - the staff is terrific. They make you feel welcome, are personable, have their own personalities, great service in the bar and really went the extra distance to help. I wish they had a better property to work in.
My wife and I were very much looking forward to our stay at the Hotel Allegro in Chicago. We had been looking forward to a romantic getaway. I have to say Hotel Allegro was a disappointment for both of us. This is a pet friendly hotel - we knew that going in. But we were shocked by the fact that we found pet hair around the room we were given. In the carpet and even an amount on the bed cover. Very shocking for the price we were paying. When we called the front desk it took over an hour for someone from housekeeping to stop by. Past this - the room itself - it has flair I guess, but I can't imagine it is the right flair for many. The colorings used a bright blue on the bed and a muted yellow, designy wallpaper. Neither myself or my wife found it relaxing at all. I can't imagine many would. It really was off-putting. Overall, the experience was a check minus in my book. Will not be looking to return any time soon.
Have stayed at this hotel on several occasions and have never failed to be anything but delighted. Great Bar (draught Stella and Guinness) which was being upgraded at the end of March when I was last there, good food, lovely staff, large clean rooms, comfortable beds, spot on location for the Golden Mile, Joey's Pizzas next door are fantastic. Ignore any bad reviews you read about this hotel as the authors must either have been very unlucky or impossible to please. Highly recommended 
I can easily say this is one of the worst hotels I've stayed at the. The receptionist up front was a snooty, sarcastic teenager or post teenager. You can get better service from a waiter or waitress at a diner. The room was dirty, stains on the carpet, the showerhead was moldy and rusted, the doors of the bathroom and main door all had dents and scratches. The towels had a horrible aroma. The hotel is very narrow, so we were near a construction zone so, I would plan on waking up at 6:am if you choose the Talbott. The next day, I asked for another room and the concierge who was a decent guy moved us to a larger more comfortable room. That room though was right by the elevator and it was torture hearing the sounds of the elevator which just would never stop. I asked for late checkout at 1pm and the receptionist refused stating that we would be charged for a half day, if were not out by noon. I had to speak to the manager who gave us till 1pm. Please stay away from this hotel, I think a Holiday Inn would be better. Andrew F. Gulli
This was my first time staying at the Hard Rock hotel in Chicago and I have nothing but hate for the entire experience. The building itself is maintained, however the staff is rude and inept to the point of making their customers feel physically ill. And while the outside appearance is fine and dandy, my room 325, was repulsive. As soon as the bellboy threw my luggage onto the room's ground and verbally demanded a tip, I noticed insects of all kinds scurrying around, the room was pungent with what smelled like human excrement, before I could say anything to the bellboy he had taken his tip and fled. Immediately I went to the front desk and was made to wait for over a half hour, a complete waste of time, because as soon as I had reported my problem I was told that no other rooms were available and I would have to make do, they did however say I could stay the night free of charge. The next morning as I was set to leave I decided I would try the breakfast, in hopes of finding one redeeming quality. Let me tell you, that breakfast tasted like space food with dirt and mold, the worst breakfast I have ever had in my entire life. Overall the employees are arrogant and callous, with the work ethic of a 2 year old child, they cannot cook, the room for me was poorly maintained, however they are good at refunding your money.
We just arrived from a 3 nights stay at the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower. It was faboulous. Fine Linen, nice room with bigs windows, bathroom with a shower, flat TV. Check for the deals on the Sofitel website, we had 3 nights for the price of two ! 
This hotel is overpriced. One should pay money for luxury, but they fall far short considering the prices that they charge. When you go to the hotel restaurants you expect a certain mark-up because, yes, they do have to make money. But the prices they charge for food that was okay makes little sense to me. When I got there and went to my room, I thought that there would be nice colors, a great view, and deluxe bedding. What I got were sheets that might have come from the full price section of target--they were not cheap, but not that expensive either. I think I could have found something of this quality at less than the 200ish a night I paid.
We traveled to Chicago to visit with our daughter who lives in the city. To our suprise what once was a lovely older hotel is now under major renovations. Gone is the lobby and gusts are required to walk down to the basement to get the one... elevator that is working to the second floor to register. Our first room was recently renovated.....stark white walls, no amenities at all. Guests had to enter the room and find their way to the bed to turn on the light to the room. Modern furniture includes a bed that is close to the groud, a cold blck slab functioning a a desh and metal chair. No fride, coffee maker, iron, or even a picture on the stark white walls. We asked to change our room and then were put in one of the older suites on the 15th floor. While this room was attractive, we were greeted to jack hammers at 8 every morning. The staff were all very nice but the accommodations were lacking. lake shore drive
I had really high hopes for this hotel. The location seemed great and the prices were too. Unfortunatley, you get what you pay for. Despite being located near the miracle mile and navy pier, there weren't many other redeeming qualities. The staff was very rude. We arrived late after a long drive from Detroit and found nobody in the lobby to help us check in. Once we finally got checked in, our room hadn't been cleaned and there was trash left over from the last people. We were told the cleaning staff had gone home for the night and they couldn't get to it until morning! We had planned on seeing some of Chicago's attractions like the Field Museum but we could hardly find anyone to help us out with where to go. Their website advertises lots of specials and packages but we found absolutely no way to purchase them. Finally, when we checked out, they had charged our room an extra cleaning fee because the cleaning we requested on the first night. RIDICULOUS!
My husband and I recently stayed stayed at the Hilton Chicago and it was a horrible experience. When we arrived, the front desk clerk was on the phone on what sounded like a personal call and didn't even acknowledge us for at least five minutes. When we got to our room I went to lay on the bed and noticed a black hair on the pillow. I'm am very paranoid about hotels being dirty, so I pulled back the sheets and moved all the pillows around and noticed several more hairs. I called for some new sheets which they said they would send right up but it actually took nearly 30 minutes. The second night we were there we decided to try the Irish pub in the hotel called Kitty O'Sheas because my husband loves pub food. We had the shepherd's pie which was awful. It was watery and had no flavor and it was not cheap! Our server seemed annoyed when we complained and did not offer it to be taken off the check. While we had a great trip to Chicago, the Hilton was definitely NOT a highlight of our trip. Overall, we had rude service, a dirty room and bad food. Spend your money elsewhere
When I first looked at the Hotel Monaco Chicago - a Kimpton Hotel's website, the hotel looked very pleasing and a great place for me to stay during my visit to Chicago. The problems began when I called to make a reservation. The woman who answered was very rude, to say the least. I had a few questions about the spa services. She rushed through what sounded like she was reading through a brochure. I decided that I shouldn't let one person ruin my experience with the hotel so I made a reservation and soon I was in Chicago. The front desk service was very pleasant when I arrived, and the room seemed clean, other than the mysterious stain on my bedsheets. I got dressed up and went down to the bar area for a drink and appetizers. It took over thirty minutes for any worker to approach me for an order. Yet two other parties that walked in after me were served right away. I was baffled considering I was dressed nice and in a fairly good mood considering it was my first trip to Chicago. Needless to say I will not be staying at this hotel again.
The Hilton Hotel helped us make the most of our trip to Chicago. Not only are they centrally located near most of Chi towns hot spots, but they also helped coordinate discounted admissions to various other attractions. The Hilton is very classy with their accommodations. I will be returning at my earliest convenience, be it for business or pleasure.
We stayed 2 nights over spring break in what was called a Jr Suite but resembled a wide hallway with a window at one end. Bad cheap furniture, carpet that stops short of reaching the wall, a TV that sticks out into the middle of the room and a window that whistled when the wind blew. BAD BAD experience. Find aother hotel plenty in the area.
My husband and I recently stayed at the Conrad Chicago for three nights, a Thursday through Saturday. Let me say we were less than pleased with our experience. We chose to stay in the "King Bed Deluxe Room" and for an average of over three hundred dollars a night we were sorely disappointed with the accommodations. Upon entry the room looked as though it had not been cleaned thoroughly, the rug looked dirty and there were crumbs or something on the dresser. The room was size was average, and again for three hundred dollars a night we were expecting a almost suite type room. The major annoyance was how loud people were. We came in after midnight each evening and long after we went to bed we could hear people coming down the hallway yelling and running. That is totally unacceptable for a supposed high end hotel. You can expect a loud guest maybe once, but every night is ridiculous. The service was also extremely sub par. We had to wait 20 minutes at check in because the girl at the counter was too busy talking to another employee about what she was going to do after work. One day we put the no house cleaning sign on the door and a maid literally walked in on me. She completely disregarded the sign, did not even bother to knock and just unlocked the door and came right in. It scared me and I'm just glad I was not getting out of the shower or changing. So to sum up, we will never stay at the Conrad again, we will never recommend it to anyone else, and for the money there are a hundred much better hotels to stay at in Chicago.
This hotel was full of drunks. The lobby was full of crowds at night and the bar was way too busy. There were people stumbling all over the hotel at all hours of the night, yelling in the hallways, making lots of noise. The staff had little to say. I wasn't aware of the noise level when I booked the room and when I threatened to make other reservations, the people in the lobby had nothing to say. We asked for a water view and got a city view. Again, the people at the front desk weren't accomodating at all. Overall, we had a horrible experience.
Great hotel in heart of Chicago for business or pleasure. Rooms are recently upgraded and very modern and large. Flat screen TVs, marble baths, all rooms are suites, great desk, kitchenette, comfortable bed, free wireless internet... everything you could ask for. Location is easy walk to Magnificient Mile and lots of great restaurants. Staff is friendly and helpful. Short cab ride to Loop. 
so my sweetie lures me out under the guise of dinner at the China Grill, upon arrival he tells me his boys are watching the game in a suite upstairs and want to say hi...we arrive at the 35th floor and my oh my!!! SURPRISE!!! ladies and gentlemen THIS is something to be admired...spacious and roomy, yet warm, cozy and inviting...great bed, comfortable furniture, great 42 inch plasmas, and the views are UNBELIEVABLE...my only complaint? a shower should have a door to keep the heat IN...other than that no complaints, room service was great, morning coffee was yummo...overall a fabulous experience!!! 
My stay at the Homewood Suites was absolutely one of my greatest stays away from home. The locations right in the heart of downtown Chicago. Within the River north shopping district.I love to shop so that was what i needed. Magnificent 2 room layouts with kitchen. The room was fully equipted with anything I needed,nice Flat screen along with a breakfast buffet and a fantastic complimentary dinner and wine. After dinner and wine I enjoyed the comfort of the heated indoor pool so relaxing. I would recommend these suites to everyone I know. 
While traveling in Chicago I stayed at the Sofitel on Chestnut Street. Though the hotel was a beautiful and comfortable as the advertisements suggest; service was severely lacking. I arrived late at night and had one peaceful dreamy nights sleep before being woke up at dawn. I reserved a room on one of the lower floors unaware of the construction happening in the area. I complained that I had not been informed of the construction and requested another room. My complaint was totally disregarded. I was told there were no other rooms in the whole hotel available. When I explained that the noise was bothersome I was treated rudely. The woman at the front desk actually ask me if I thought she could make the workers stop. I understand that the staff has no control over the noise. They did however know about the construction. Information I did not have at the time I booked. Information that would have swayed my decision. Then to treat me so rudely for bringing it to their attention. I will not be staying there again.
I recently stayed at the Hard Rock Hotel in Chicago during Labor day weekend, huge mistake! When I got to my room everything seemed okay,Until I went into the bathroom. There was a steady drip noise coming from the bathroom sink and no matter how hard I turned the knob, it would not stop. There was none of the usual bath soap nor was it stocked with any toilet paper. It also seems that housekeeping just swept everything behind the toilet as I saw a wad of hair, and scraps of tissue behind the bowl. I called the front desk and ask them to send someone up to stock the bathroom and clean it. While I was waiting I turned on the air conditioning because it was kind of warm in there.... the a.c. started blowing out hot, musky air and had the room smelling horrible. I made another phone call to front desk and complained and asked them to switch my room. They told me all they had available was a double bed and it was near an elevator. I was so frustrated between the odor and the steady drip I was hearing I had no choice but to take it. When I moved to the new room, there was now a large damp spot near the window which smelled very strongly of beer and the light in my bathroom would not turn on. Front desk once again sent someone to my room to fix the problems and finally 2 hours later, I was able to relax and settle in. Hard Rock is definitely not what it used to be and for that reason, I will not be staying there again.
The Chicago Hyatt Regency deceptively alters the cancellation policy by charging the full room rate upon cancellation--ie the room cannot be cancelled. I recently booked over the phone a one night stay directly with the hotel. The reservation specialist mentioned over the phone there was a 72-hour cancellation policy. However, when I tried to cancel the reservation within that timeframe, Robert, the reservation supervisor, said that the room could not be cancelled at any time without charging full price for the room. He said that I should refer to the confirmation e-mail that states at the bottom that prepayment is required at time of booking / non-refunable. This clearly was not what was agreed to over the phone. I told him to cancel without being charged. In response, he threatened to cancel and charge me for the full stay. Why would someone cancel if they are going to be charged full price? The bottom line is the hotel deceptively changed the terms of the agreement, and Robert should go back to customer service school!
My stay at The Palmer House Hilton was wonderful. I was attracted to this Hotel because it was going to be me and my finance's first time in Chicago. The location of the hotel was perfectly placed Downtown Chicago We took advantage of the Hilton Bed and Breakfast Special. Upon Check in on Friday afternoon we went to the Lockwood restaurant before going to the room for the weekend. We stayed in a One Bedroom Suite with a King Size Bed. The Hotel was spotless. I have never been in a Hotel Room that was so clean. The portions of food was perfect, and everything they provided was on point. I would recommend this hotel for anyone who is going to visit Chicago for the first time. The staff is professional, and let you feel like a King and Queen.
I only stayed out with my boyfriend for one night, however enjoyed my stay. The staff was friendly, the room was nice and clean, the hallways and ballrooms etc were elegant. Room service was quick and had good options to choose from that actually tasted great. The staff was able to extend our check out time for an extra 1-2 hours without an extra charge to the room. Great location too! Walking distance from the Art Museum, Millennium Park, Grant Park (right across the street) and a quick cab ride to McCormick Place. If I were in the city again I would love to stay there again. 
Not worth the price! I had the unfortunate experience of staying in the Hilton Homewood Suites in downtown Chicago. I stayed there with my family while we were on vacation. I wish I would have saved my money and went somewhere else. With a hotel this expensive, you think that they might throw in some bonuses your way, like complimentary parking. Not a chance. In addition to the $259 price tag, I also had to pay $30 for parking, per night. If I had stayed at the Motel 6, parking would have been free. The staff there were not very nice at all. When I registered, the lady at the counter acted like helping me was interfering with her internet chat time. She was very rude to me. Perhaps she was having a bad day or something, but I doubt it. After I arrived in my room, my key card didn't work, and I had to go back downstairs to get it fixed (once again, interrupting her precious free time with some actual work). The rooms had some nice features, like kitchen appliances and a flat screen television. I didn't go on vacation to cook though. The television didn't get very many channels, and you had to pay if you wanted to watch any of their movies (of course). I tried logging into Facebook to say hello to my friends from the hotel room, but the "complimentary" internet access was so slow that it was hardly worth using. I get a better connection at Starbucks. They offer a complimentary dinner and breakfast, but it's nothing to write home about. I've had better food at McDonald's. The food was pretty cold, and the choices are very limited. Traffic around the hotel was hideous. This hotel is downtown, and you can definitely tell. There are a bunch of one-way streets around, which makes getting in and out confusing. The room was pretty clean, but you can say that about a lot of hotels in a wide variety of price ranges. If you're looking for a hotel in Chicago, I'd say save some money and go somewhere else. I've had better stays at the Best Western and many other hotels that cost less.
amazing and beautiful! i stayed two nights here and the room was immaculate. All of the staff were extremely nice and welcoming. The food was delicious and fixed to perfection. The entire hotel was clean, warm and inviting. Will definitely stay here again and recommend to any of my friends traveling to the area.
Last month, my husband and I stayed at the InterContinental Chicago while we were in town for IMTS. Although they were very busy, the service was excellent and very professional. The staff were always smiling and happy to help. InterContinental was conveniently located near Michigan avenue, and the best stores and restaurants in town. The view from our room was great! Our room was always clean when we arrived home at night, it was decorated nicely, and the beds were extremely comfortable! We ate at the hotel's restaurant Zest, and the food was great! It was by far one of the best hotels we have visited in a while. We will definitely be back!
I travel often for business and this hotel ranks very low on my list. The room had such a strong odor of smoke, it gave me a headache (and I used to be a smoker)! The room service was mediocre and extremely expensive. The hotel is disturbingly huge. Very difficult to navigate your way around it. I waited on hold for twenty minutes to ask a concierge where a pharmacy was located. She curtly gave me cross-street names and hung up. Uhhhhh, how do I know which direction to go in??? Stains on the carpet in the room. A big gauge in the wall, where maybe a thermostat once was??? The shower is decent. All in all, for the price they charge, NO THANKS!!! I'm just glad my company is footing the bill.
Whilst no doubt being in a good location this hotel falls short in other areas. Most notably is cleanliness, as although the lobby was very clean, the corridors of my floor as well as the room was not. Dust lined the carpeted floor for the hallways, and in the room the the bed emitted an unpleasant odor as if the sheets had not been changed in some time. The furnishings were nice and modern, but with various blemishes upon close inspection. Bathroom was relatively clean, with the exception of the shower. View was nice for this particular room, and service was relatively quick. The food in the restaurant was average but again cleanliness was an issue. This time with the glasses which were stained, the waiter promptly apologized and returned with new glasses but this is still inexcusable in what is advertised as a high class hotel. I will not make the mistake of staying here again.
This hotel was very overpriced for what you get from staying here. The Amalfi Hotel Chicago advertises itself as a "luxury hotel" located in downtown Chicago. Since it is in downtown Chicago, that means that I had street noises keeping me up most of the night. My view also suffered. They had nicer rooms available with better views, but the markups to stay in them was outrageous! The room itself was decent, with clean linens and nice air conditioning, but I can get that in just about any hotel these days. There wasn't anything particularly luxurious about the hotel to make it a stand-out for me, but for the price I paid for the room, I certainly had that expectation. It was a let down.
Booked a room w/ a queen bed for 2 nights for a wonderful NYE, and was rather disappointed. Bed was either the world's smallest queen, or was actually a double, not to mention it was uncomfortably springy. Some of the things in the bathroom had been previously opened and used (q-tips). Lots of noise seemed to carry through the vents as we could hear other rooms rather clearly. When the tv was off, there was a very audible high-pitched humming noise that we could not get rid of unless we unplugged the tv. Hot water was very inconsistent in the shower. It is in a great location, however, next time I will try one of the other hotels in the area like the Intercontinental or Marriott. This might not be too bad if you are passing though quickly on business, but I wouldn't recommend it for a romantic night or two.
Fairmont Hotels are generally my preferred choice, but this was a true disappointment. Check-in was quite slow and problematic (glitches with their reservation system locally). Room was very small and oddly arranged. Felt quite cramped in room and was hard to work at very small desk. Hotel overall felt quite cold and isolating...lobby is not at all inviting, and it didn't feel terribly safe walking around outside. Gift shop was overpriced, even for a downtown hotel. Food was disappointing. Overall this seems greatly overpriced and does not meet usual standards of A Fairmont i've come to count on. Bill was completely messed up and required 3 separate calls after i left to straighten out.
I can only confirm the positve reviews previously mentioned. We stayed in room 1112, King with River View. No noise and very comfortable.The price was a bargain at $191 a night. I would stay here again. The "L" from Midway Airport lets you off about two blocks from the Hotel. It's a $2 ride - no need for a $40 taxi ride. 
I recently stayed at the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower hotel and I could not be more pleased. The hotel is sleek from the elegant lobby to the modern, stylish rooms. The rooms are something truly special with huge, soft beds with the most luxurious sheets you have ever seen and felt. The bathrooms are beautiful with cool marble tiles and a gorgeous glass and marble shower/tub. If that wasn't enough each room has a crisp 32" LCD TV that displays TV in the most beautiful and clear way with an absolutely amazing sound system. When you finally make it out of your room, down the grand stair case you need not look further for dinner than the hotel restaurant. It is called Cafe des Architectes and like the hotel itself melds a modern sophistication with classic French techniques. Their wine list is amazing but their prices are fantastic for a hotel near the Magnificent mile. A full dinner including appetizer, main course, and dessert can be had for $45, amazing. If you are looking for a modern, urban, chic hotel in Chicago then look no further, the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower hotel is your only real choice.
My parents booked five nights at The James for its location and good reviews. They had a terrible first night with defective air conditioning and not much sympathy from the management staff. They sent engineers three times to repair the unit, and they insisted that it was getting cooler when it wasn't, under the rationale that the summer temperature is high and the filter was dirty. At my parents' request, the hotel staff moved them to a lower floor with a queen instead of a king and with neither a rate discount nor an effort to compensate them for the inconvenience and discomfort. The hotel insisted they were fully booked and reluctantly gave them that room. Don't book this hotel in the summer. And by the way, there is no view at all from any of the rooms - except for the windows of other buildings.
My family and I stayed at this hotel during an extended weekend trip in July, 08. We had (3) 1 bedroom suites. Great Location in downtown Chicago. Within walking distance to shopping and most downtown tourist attractions. The service was excellent and the hotel staff was friendly. The breakfast buffet was very good but the eating area can get crowded. I recommend going early. The rooms were quiet and clean. I highly recommend this hotel for families and for travelers staying >2-3 days. We would stay here again. Parking is expensive, about $28/day. It is valet. The cheapest self parking I could find in the area was $24/days so we did valet parking. The valet and bell staff were very helpful and friendly. This is my 3rd experience with Homewood Suites (3 different cities). I have had a great experience each time. 
My stay here was superb. The view from my windows was stunning, as I looked out I could see the beautiful Grant Park. The room had a nice airy feel but was also warm and inviting. The bed was very comfortable. The wireless internet was fast and effective which is nice especially when on business trips. THe hotel is in walking distance to the museum which is nice for those on vaca. Overall I thouroughly enjoyed my stay here. 
I wrote an email to the sales & reservation team a week ago.........i'm still waiting for a response. All I wanted to do was book a suite for 2 nights but they failed to even reply with an offer. We have now booked another hotel who can be bothered to answer emails. Shame you missed out, coz we tip like rockerfellers!!
We were amazed by this hotel. The first great part is the location. Its so close to some of the great shopping the city has to offer. The view from the terrace suite at night was breathtaking looking over Chicago. They even had a florist, as I bought my wife a rose. The menus, the lobby, everything was fantastic. The room was clean when we arrived as it was every time we came back to it each day. I didn't use the fitness center but it looked very nice, I did however visit the bar....and when i return to Chicago, I will again.
Stayed valentines weekend. Got the 5th floor with a direct view of the building next door. You have to pay extra for the pool and the ice machine was out on our floor. Parking nearby sucks as most of Chicago or pay 50 for valet to go through your car. Glasses were dusty and gross. This location is notorious for having super sensitive scales on the mini fridge, so when you barely touch it you'll get a bill at 3 in the morning under your door. Had I been on a higher floor and had a better view it would be a 4 star but not this time.
I booked this hotel for a business trip since I was able to get a $129 rate on Travelzoo and figured I'd save my company some money. I had also read excellent reviews on TripAdvisor. I had a guaranteed and confirmed room reservation for two nights in November. When I arrived in Chicago at 7:30pm I decided to go to dinner prior to checking in so called the hotel to request a late check in and was told "no problem." When I arrived at the hotel at 11:45pm I was told they didn't have a room for me and that I'd have to move to the Four Points Sheraton which they paid for. It was a major inconvenience to have to move and completely unacceptable that my confirmed room was given away. I was told that they overbooked and didn't get as many cancellations as they expected. I did check into the hotel the next day and once there did have a good experience. I would recommend staying here but do ensure that your reservation is indeed confirmed and avoid any late check-ins or you might not have a room! The "experience designers" were great and very helpful. The rooms were very nice and comfortable (felt like home). The breakfast could stand to add on some bagels for the "healthy factor." It was nice that they did have fruit. I think that once the kinks are worked out that this will be a great hotel--they just need to get the basics down!
The Affinia Hotel is beautiful! It's in a great location, the service is top-notch, and the rooms are very comfortable and spacious. The look of the hotel is very modern, but it feels warm and cozy, too. The restaurant is amazing! I thoroughly enjoyed my stay and would definitely go back! If you're planning a trip to Chicago, check this place out!
Having had a great stay at the Monaco last Fall with friends, I was disappointed (initially) to arrive on Saturday with husband and find that they didn't have our Quikbook made reservation in their system and they had no rooms available for Sat. eve. BUT they immediately took responsibility for their mistake by doing the following: found us a nice room at the neighboring Swissotel and paid for it! Gave us cab fare to get the 4 blocks over there. Paid for our valet parking $33 that eve. So naturally when they asked if we were interested in returning for Sunday eve (when they did have room), we said yes. When we returned, they gave us a corner suite with jacuzzi tub for our $139 quikbook rate! Now that's what I call a recovery!! 
Downtown Chicago has a multitude of available hotels. However once youve decided to step away from the ordinary a fantastic way to get away from it all is by booking a stay at the Homewood suites. The combination of luxury and affordability is evident as soon as youve entered the glamourous lobby. The Downtown Homewood suites is located near all the attractions which make Chicago the diverse and culturally rich town that is world known. The hotel offers a free fitness center, high speed wireless internet as well as a complimentary buffet breakfast. Being a member of the Hilton family ensures the utmost in quality and service which has been observed by millions of customers around the world. 
We booked this trip several months in advance and were greatly looking forward to our stay at the Hotel Monaco in Chicago. However, our experience was significantly different from what we expected, for the following reasons. First of all, there was only one person at the front desk when we arrived. That person was preoccupied with something on their computer so our presence was not acknowledged for several minutes. Then when we got to our room, there were beautiful drapes in the window and across one entire wall but I found them to be incredibly dusty. Just bumping into them slightly caused a cloud of dust to emerge which I found distasteful. Overall it was a good stay but those two inconveniences made us question the amount of money we paid for it.
I was here on business so I needed to get some rest the next day but the walls were so thin that I could here all the carrying on in the neighbors room till 3 am. This was very beautiful building the room was a lot smaller than I expected and the staff were not very friendly. The person at the front desk had no personality, did not even welcome me to the hotel. All in all I don't think I will be back.
My husband and I and our 10 month old took a quick trip to Chicago. We stayed one night at The Palmer house after reading that they were a four star hotel. I guess I am just confused as to why they are a four star hotel. Yes the lounge area is nice but the rooms were so small I couldn't set up a pack and play for my son. I had to call and "upgrade" my room just so my son could have someplace to sleep. The lower levels have been updated which makes them slightly better than a Holiday Inn. The wall paper is peeling away from the walls and the shower was dirty. I will NEVER stay there again.
We booked this hotel for an adult weekend away on Priceline, paid $85 which thought was good price for a 4* in downtown Chicago. The location is great. The hotel minimally OK> Unsure how it gets a 4* rating. It is old and though clean the decor is definitely jaded and needing a face lift. Staff were pleasant and overall it was a good stay. However I would NOT recommend this hotel. I would rather have paid $100 and got something more updated - trouble with old it tends to look somewhat seedy and this was true in this case. My suggestion DO NOT BOOK PRICELINE FOR CHICAGO IL AND ASK FOR 4 * BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE ALMOST SURE TO GET.....NOT GOOD ENOUGH PRICELINE.!! IN MY OPINION.
I was not pleased with my recent stay at the Palmer House Hilton. My room was not ready upon my arrival and the room I was given was not what I had requested. I had requested a room with 2 queen size beds on a lower floor and was not given that. The air conditioning in my room was not functioning properly and it could not be turned off. The room had an overpowering fragrance smell which made my sinuses act up. I wondered what had happened in the room before I got it to make the housekeeping staff use so much air freshener. There was no doorman available or a cart so I had to lug my 3 suitcases by myself by dragging 2 of them about 20 feet and then going to get the other one so as not to lose sight of them at any point since they contained valuable irreplaceable items. Luckily another guest saw my predicament and offered assistance. My room had evidence of the previous occupants that had been left behind and overlooked by the housekeeping staff. They promised to send someone up to take care of the debris and after 3 calls to the front desk I finally gave up. I had looked forward to my stay there but have to conclude that it simply did not live up to the advertising and was a poor value for the money that I spent to stay there.
In the 100 degree heat of a Chicago summer, it sucks if your air conditioner does not work. After 2 maintenance men attempted to rectify the issue I was offered a portable fan which on low speed sound as if a helicopter was hoovering over my room. I requested a room change and a not so polite, unsympathetic night front desk attendant stated that was not possible because the hotel was at capacity. Maybe a manager could help me in the morning. The next day went by and no call was received. At 7pm, I called the front desk. No one was aware of my problem. Approximately 45 minutes later, a manager returned my call and stated a double room was available. I accepted it was glee. Anything was better than a room that does not cool below 78 degrees in the middle of summer. I was paritally correct. The bathroom door of the new room did not close. Thank god my boyfriend and I are past the shy part of the relationship. As for room 1618, I believe I was not the first guest to complain about the air conditioner. What's unfortunate is they continued to place guests into this room. And did not offer any reufunds or perks for my sleepless night in the sauna! This hotel need a major overhaul!!
This hotel was incredible! Haven't had a better stay in a hotel in my life. I will definitely come here again next time I am in Chicago! The rooms were so elegant, with their modern color schemes. The staff members were friendly and willing to lend a hand. The beds were surprisingly comfortable, with interesting covers. The TVs were HD, which was a step up from most hotels i have stayed at before. There was a cool martini bar that I spent an hour at one night, which was enjoyable, especially because of the live jazz band
Overview: --Overrated hotel in a premium location. The Great: --Location - walking distance or cheap cab ride to a ton of great restaurants, bars, and sights. The Good: --Inviting lobby, pleasant staff though a few were a bit snobby, in particular the night deskman. --Nice bathroom, comfortable bed and desk chair. The Mediocre: --Room (excluding bathroom) was underwhelming in design. --No kitchen or bar though they have limited room service from Harry Caray's across the street. --Free cocktails 5-7pm in "lounge" is right idea with wrong execution; tiny little room packed with people and a line extending out the door. --Hot water (or lack thereof) - almost every morning my shower water temperature would waver between comfortably hot to lukewarm. Pressure is pretty low. --View - mine wasn't great but apparently some of the rooms are horrible. The Bad: --Free wi-fi / ethernet has inconstant speeds and required multiple logins every day, even when my computer wasn't moved - really aggravating. Same deal for my iPhone. I also got numerous vulnerability threat warnings from my Norton Anti-virus that makes me wonder how secure it is. --No blackout curtains! I had a corner room with a huge wrap-around window and awoke to bright sunlight every morning (not to mention a near total lack of privacy at night). Never had this issue in any hotel or motel I've ever stayed at. --Noise! - the hotel is sandwiched between a few different bars and the late night cacophony of yelling, bar music, trucks, car horns, and sirens is hugely distracting well into the early hours of the morning. I had to wear ear plugs despite being on the 5th floor. --TV had crappy HD signal with out of sync audio on every channel. And the remote was useless. --In room bar had standard inflated prices but the $7 bottle of Fiji water bedside was insulting. Don't even think of opening it; there's a 7-Eleven around the corner that sells exact same bottle for a fraction of the cost. Summary: --Not recommended. Looks much nicer in the website photos than it is. Rating on Yelp is bloated by at a least a star.
We live down the block from the hotel. We arranged to have new floors put in our condo while we were away. The floors were not finished when we returned so we looked for an inexpensive local hotel for one night. I think the Ambassador East was the least expensive hotel within a reasonable distance so we decided to stay there. Over the years I had had some visiting groups stay there. I had also eaten there and been to the bar but I had never stayed there myself. The lobby is elegant. The service is great and the room was large and clean although a little outdated. The location is the best residential area in the city (as far as I am concerned -- I live two blocks away) and it is very convenient to North Michigan Avenue ( a good shopping street) and reasonably convenient to the Loop ( the main business area) There are also probably 50 restaurants in all price ranges in reasonable walking distance including some of the best in the city. I paid less than $100 including tax for one night. I am not sure what their regular rates are but I think my deal was the best travel bargain around. 
 We just returned from a relaxing stay at the InterContinental in Chicago. I have to say the service was phenomenal! From the maid to the concierge and everyone in between, the staff treated us like royalty. It was quite the treat to feel so special. Our room was gorgeous. The view of the city was breathtaking. The luxury mattress and bedding made for the most comfortable peaceful slumber. We found the marble bathroom stunning and impeccably clean. My wife was very pleased with the lighted make-up mirror while I enjoyed the reliable Wi-Fi connection. During our stay we dinned in the Zest. Wow! They offer an extensive wine menu and a full array of gourmet food options. We had to try the famous wiener schnitzel -- it was scrumptious. Afterwards, my wife and I shared the chocolate lava cake, can I just say oh that cake is to die for! Really the best we ever had. In the morning we spent some time working off dinner at the junior olympic swimming pool; followed by an exhilarating round of cardio in the hotels dedicated cardio room. Afterwards, a trip to the sauna was a well deserved refuge. Overall, our stay at the InterContinental in Chicago was nothing short of fabulous. This luxury hotel is complete with the finest of amenities and the most caring staff. We are looking forward to staying at the InterContinental again, hopeful soon! 
We stayed at the Fairmont two nights for the SOFA art fair at the Navy Pier. I was impressed that the bellman called us by name when he met the taxi and pronounced it correctly, which is quite unusual. Everyone smiled and welcomed us. The lobby looks clean and friendly, not ultramodern, but not at all tired or worn. Our room, also clean and comfortably furnished, was larger than we expected, with a clean, modern bath and a lovely view of the Navy Pier and the lake. We did not eat at the restaurant, but it looked attractive. Our only problem was that we had asked for non-feather pillows, upon reserving the room, upon checking in, and calling housekeeping. After waiting an hour, we went to bed. The next day the check-in desk person was extremely apologetic and by the time we returned, all the feathers were replaced with foam and non-allergenic materials. The hotel is convenient to Millenium Park and Michigan Ave. We would stay there again, assuming we could get good rates. 
I recently was in Chicago on business and chose to stay at the Swissotel, Chicago. The hotel sells itself as being stylish, sophisticated and luxurious and says it is in the center of the city. I would have been better off anywhere else. I was not impressed with the interior, finding them bordering on clinical and too modern for my taste. I guess 'stylish' might be modern in some people's minds, but not mine. Also, luxury to me means plush not hard and clinical. When I made my way to reception, I hardly encountered the friendly customer service boasted of on the website. I had organized an executive suite as I was planning to work some of the time from my hotel room, and thought the extra space would come in handy. When I proceeded to check in, the girl at the desk told me, while smacking gum, that I had no reservation. I handed over my booking confirmation and she told me that at first she had spelled my name wrong, even though I had spelled it out for her. She then proceeded to tell me that due to a conference, all of the executive suites had already been allocated, but that they would be happy to assign me to a lake view room. Correct me if I am wrong, but this is a step down from the room I had asked for! Surely if you give away my room, you should try to compensate me with something better! I said that no, I really needed more space as I would be using the room as an office, and finally she said that they did have a corner king room available, and that if I wanted to switch the following evening, I would be welcome to do that. The room was ok, although, again, I was disappointed by how cold and clinical it felt. I did attempt to make use of some of the hotel services, but found them sadly lacking. Some comments on the services: the high speed wireless was not available in the room unless you were willing to pay a fee for a cable to connect, and also a per day fee which borders on extortion! There was free wifi in the lobby, but requires you to sit near the doors which open constantly letting in freezing blasts of air, plus deal with the noise and bustle of people constantly coming in and out. I did phone room service on my arrival to request an extra pillow and towels, but had to wait 2 hours before they arrived. The fitness center and pool which I was looking forward to using, were closed for cleaning when I went up. Breakfast the next morning consisted of continental items, which is not what I would have expected for the money. All in all, I would say your money is better spent elsewhere.
The InterContinental Chicago Hotel is one of the finest hotels I have stayed at in a long time. The atmosphere upon arrival was one of elegance and beauty. The staff welcomed us and catered to our every need. The rooms were plush and very romantic. Interior decor was breathtaking. It is definitely above a 4 star rating and I would not think twice about coming back here. It received my highest recommendation.
First off, don't get a room on a lower floor, the garbage pick up makes a ton of noise and wakes you up at 6 am. Then don't bother going down for breakfast at that time either, because the restaurant isn't open that early. When it finally opened, the breakfast arrived cold and late. Nothing like congealed eggs to start your day. The fitness center had no towels and no cups for water. It was also too hot and too many people had sweated too much in it. After my congealed breakfast, it really was not pleasant. My entire three day visit was like that. I tried room service that night, but again, service was very slow and the food not warm when it arrived. My high speed internet was not so high speed when it would connect me at all. The furniture was run down and worn. Pool towels were not always available. Generally, for the price I paid, I would expect better service and a better maintained premises.
Two main issues: (1) understaffed from the street to the front desk. Unfortunately I had to drive into the city, when I arrived there was an excessively long wait for parking. Then inside, there was a huge queue line with just one clerk working in a big city hotel. Not good (I will say friendly however) (2) I know this is a big city, but, $49 a night to park my car when I'm staying at that hotel? Really?? That's unreasonable and a bit gouging in my opinion. Again, I realize this is Chicago, but, I'm already paying a hefty price for this outdated hotel.
staff was very courteous. desk clerk gave only one coupon for the free breakfast instead of two. second desk clerk gave the wrong time for the breakfast on the second day, causing us to miss the free period. room was very clean, with a nice view of the river. bed was very comfortable. toilet looked like it belonged in a public restroom (no tank; instead it had a stainless steel valve) instead of a 4-star hotel. no dresser to store clothes. no wastebasket in the room, and there was a cover for the icebucket, but no icebucket. folding luggage stand had a broken strap. location was good, close to the river. several american-style eating places nearby. overall, a disappointment for a four-star hotel. i expected more for a hyatt regency.
This small boutique hotel is tucked away in a perfect location between the Loop and the Miracle Mile. Two blocks west of the Wrigley Building and so convenient to restaurants, etc. The staff, from doormen to desk folks are extra nice and accommodating. The delicious breakfast on each floor is ultra-convenient, the evening happy hour is more than generous, and the morning paper is welcome. Bedding is so comfortable. This is our second stay, and certainly not our last. We love Chicago, and this hotel is one of the reasons why. 
Awesome hotel, our room overlooked Michigan Ave and we could see the river. Very stylish, trendy room and hotel. Lacked a bit in amenities (pool, etc) but more than made up for it with the location and quality of the hotel. Booked it thought Hotwire for $99 which was awesome value. 
a great hotel, we used the CTA the 2 days we were in Chicago and it is great, that the Line 6 stops nearly in front of the hotel. So we did not need any taxi and traveled from Midway to the city and to Ohare for 9$ and we used the buses alot (freezing cold). The hotel itself is great, very clean rooms, realy on of the best bathrooms i ever had. Staff very friendly, they even found me out were i can get Timerland shoes.... and she was right i got them in one place she told me... thats service...I also was having a look to the gym room and the swimming pool area, did not use it and I do not know if it would have been included in the room price....but realy a nice view makes running easyer.... 
We stayed at the Omni Chicago Hotel recently and had a great experience! My husband and I would highly recommend this hotel to anyone visiting downtown Chicago. We are frequent travelers who are used to staying in well-maintained, luxury properties with many amenities and the Omni Chicago definitely fit the bill. First of all, the hotel is all suites. We stayed in one of the "Premium Suites". The accommodations were definitely luxurious, with premium bedding, very nice robes for our use, and a choice of pillows. We used the hypo-allergenic ones, but I believe you could have also chosen foam or feathers. We were pleased to find that the TV was plasma, we have found that not all hotels have upgraded to plasma and we don't wish to use one of the old-fashioned type of TVs anymore now that we are so used to plasma at home. There were actually two TVs in our suite. There were also some additional amenities that we appreciated such as high-speed internet access, a wet bar, an indoor swimming pool and two gorgeous sundecks for relaxing outside. The location was perfect as it was right in the midst of the Miracle Mile, with so much to do practically at the Omni's doorstep. I also treated myself to the Windy City Massage, which was done in the comfort and luxury of our suite. The masseuse was excellent and she used very high-quality products for my sensitive skin. It was extremely relaxing and I was so pleased to find out that I could get this at the Omni. It was easy for us to see why the Omni came so highly recommended. I also wanted to mention that the staff was very helpful and friendly, recommending several excellent area restaurants. However, we think our best meal was at the Omni's 676 Restaurant, where my husband raved about the bone-in ribeye and I had the carrot soup and the Lake Erie Silver Bass. They had an extensive wine list and we were easily able to choose wines we loved with the staff's guidance. Lastly, the hotel staff also highly recommended we visit the nearby Art Institute of Chicago, which was a highlight of our trip. We loved that there were multiple museums so close to the Omni! We will be frequent visitors at the Omni in the future, where I will definitely be getting the in-room massage again. We are going to pass this recommendation on to all of our friends and family - choose the Omni for a great Chicago experience!
The Hotel Sofitel Chicago Water Tower bills itself as a 4-star luxury hotel, but the luxury is evidently in the eye of the beholder. Filled with trite modern art and modular, cheap-looking furniture that looks straight out of the latest Ikea catalogue, this 32-floor hunk of glass has to be one of the ugliest hotels I have ever seen. "Urban chic" design does not equal comfort; the seating and bed furniture are made more for the design floor than for actual use. Room service is expensive, slow, and the food you eventually do get is mediocre in quality and flavor. The hotel features two bars: the Cafe des Architectes Bar, and the simply named Le Bar. Cutesy French names and trendy modern outfittings do not a good hotel bar make! Excellent service, fair prices, friendly and competent staff are what make a bar great, none of which you will find at either of these bars. Cafe des Architectes is also a restaurant, offering "seasonal menus featuring contemporary cuisine with French roots," which means small portions and large prices at questionable quality. Even the old standby filet mignon did not stand up to its reputation, coming out a little dry hunk of meat rather than a succulent steak. Pass this one by, if you're looking for a comfortable, enjoyable stay in downtown Chicago. The Water Tower is dry.
I was going to Chicago last month and wanted a nice hotel that was close to restaurants and shops. I did some research and believed the InterContinental would suit my needs. I sure was not disappointed by my decision! This hotel lots of historic charm. Despite being a larger hotel, the service was top shelf! The rooms, while not large by any means, were extremely well-appointed and very comfortable. My kids loved the big swimming pool that the hotel offered. As for me, I was more impressed with the location to the Magnificent Mile. The hotel also has a nice restaurant on-site. The food was very good and, just like the hotel itself, the restaurant provided perfect customer service. Dollar for dollar, the InterContinental in Chicago is a great deal and I will be staying there again. 
I stayed at the James in June, and I must say, it felt like I was in some ultra-swanky boutqiue hotel. From the uniforms of the staff.. which consists of a small J pin that they wear with nice suits and such, to the wonderful, comfortable beds, the James just makes you feel ultra-relaxed. The gym in the hotel was fantastic for a hotel gym, and the machines were all new and in fantastic condition. I really enjoyed the complimentary Kiehl's products as well as the soft, cushy beds with futons. Location-wise, it's just off Michigan ave, and it's close to all the shops and restaurants. I'd definitely stay here if I'm' ever back in Chicago. 
This hotel is located right in the hustle and bustle of the city of Chicago. It is ideal for the corporate executive. Not only in terms of location but the hotel offers a spectacular view of the ocean. The dining room is spacious and makes eating at this hotel a really pleasant experience. While dining the guest experiences a nice ambiance as they overlook the city, which is picturesque especially at night, when the city lights come on. The rooms are nice and spacious and allows the guest to get all their work done with a desk area. I would strongly recommend this hotel for the corporate executive!
While the Hard Rock Hotel in Chicago promises upscale accommodations and a unique experience, they fail to deliver. Unless of course, a unique experience includes being kept awake all night by a party in the room next door. If you plan on staying there for a chance to meet your favorite celebrity or musician you will be sorely disappointed. The "A" list celebrities will not be there. In fact, it would be rare to find anyone on the "B" list either. The party that keeps you awake will not be your favorite band practicing for their next concert. The party is being held by the musicians that were not even able to gain work at a local coffee bar. The walls of the rooms are so thin you can hear every wrong note played. As for the promise of Art Deco, it must have changed in definition. Your room will truly look like a concert has just been held. The carpet smelled like it had been shampooed in beer. The bathroom lets just say that clean was not the correct description. Quality service and amenities were severely lacking. Guests are not greeted with warmth but with disdain. Do not bother complaining about the noise next door either. It is part of you unique experience. The only part of the Hard Rock Hotel description that appeared to be accurate was that it is in a great location in Chicago. It was easy to find a real hotel to stay in for the rest your trip.
I stayed in the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower hotel with my husband and two kids last weekend, and will definitely use this hotel again for future travels. The spacious rooms with modern, innovative furniture and comfortable beds was a great contrast to the small, dismal rooms and rock-hard beds that I have found at other hotel chains. The bathrooms were neat, tidy, and well-stocked with towels and personal needs such as toilet paper, shampoo, and soap. The carpet was clean (not stained and dingy like some hotels), the room decor was astounding, and the view from our window was wonderful. I enjoyed every aspect of this hotel stay, from the courteous staff at check-in to the ease of requesting room service and checking out. Thanks for making me feel right at home!
Me and my husband got married here. We loved the atmosphere of our suite. It felt like home away from home. They have a nice pool. The rooms were clean and the staff was courteous. Thanks so much for doing such a great job with our wedding. Amy C. of Los Angelas, California
Stayed at the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower for 3 nights in early April 2007. Very convenient location just a block from all of the shopping on the Golden Mile. Good restaurant at the hotel serving a la carte breakfast different from the usual fare and with a nice French twist. Dinner at the restaurant was also good. Prices are reasonable. Room is comfortable, only problem was with a card access door lock that usually required several swipes before opening. Excellent service from the bellmen to the concierge and front desk staff. Would definitely stay here again if visiting Chicago. Concierge recommended a small van tour, which was excellent. However early April is too early to visit Chicago as popular activities such as the boat tour of the architecture of Chicago was not operating yet. 
The hotel was undergoing renovations so it was dirty and noisy. The entrance was really scary since it was covered with scaffolding, making it dark. They charge a lot for internet hook up, wifi is not included. The staff was very slow, I am assuming they were all new. They could not say where anything was or what attractions were nearby. The room was set up weird, the bathroom opened facing the bed, rather than the hall as most do. Room temp was hard to control, even though they had a digital thermostat. Overall I was very disappointed, had I been staying more than one night I would have switched hotels.
I was in business in Chicago, so I decided to choose what I thought would be a relaxing hotel to treat myself a bit. I should have known when the woman at the front desk rolled her eyes when I asked for some of the complimentary apple cider advertised. She told me, "It's by the signs" in a "you-idiot" kind of voice. Too bad the signs were too far away from me to read without my glasses! I was ashamed and did not ask for anything from the front desk again. The room itself was horribly decorated and nothing special. The "I'm too ugly to steal" furniture patterns and colors did not say "luxury" to me! I went down to relax by the pool with my laptop, to get some work done. Unfortunately, the pool was overrun with about five rowdy kids. No parents in sight. I would have reported them to the front desk, but was shamed by the aforementioned apple cider incident. Thank God I left my laptop in its case, or it would have been ruined by all of the water that was splashed on me! The "free breakfast" tasted like cardboard; it was something akin to a free breakfast at a $60-a-night hotel. I only tried it once because it made me feel sick when I ate it. The only good thing about my experience was leaving this overpriced motel behind to go to work!
Everything you would would expect from a top-notch hotel and exceeded by the service. The trendy decor and easy to access dining gave us a 'second-wind' pick up after a day of sight-seeing. This hotel is definitely the place that I want to come back to. By the time we left after 4 days and 3 nights, my wife and I wished we had more time to enjoy the restaurant a few more times and the delightful Swiss flare. One of the things we enjoyed the most was seeing the water from our window. The feeling of being pampered can only come from the very gracious hotel staff and this hotel is number 1 in my mind. 
We booked our stay through Priceline.com and got a great deal. We were only staying one night and we had our 2 year old with us. At check-in, we were upgraded to a suite with a lake view of Lake Michigan. It was beautiful. The suite had a king bed with a living room and a bar and mini-fridge which we didn't need, but if we were staying longer, it would have been a godsend. This hotel is in close proximity with Grant Park which has the beautiful Buckingham Fountain. We walked around the park and even saw a movie being filmed....but if you are looking for a hotel with a lot of restaurants around it, this isn't the one. We ended up eating at the Irish Pub inside the hotel (Kitty O'Shea's) which has great food. (We have stayed here before and always end up eating here.) There are a lot of attractions within a mile including the Field Museum, Shedd Aquarium, Soldier Field, and Navy Pier. They may not be walking distance but we could see them from our hotel window. Overall, we had another wonderful stay at the Chicago Hilton. (Our 4th stay) The only downside is the expensive parking within the hotel.....41 dollars a night is kind of ridiculous. 
Stay away from this hotel. A few months back me and my wife decided to get out and have a nice pampered away from home weekend. Looking at different options for this weekend we decided to go with the Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers. They claim " Experience the extraordinary " and this sounded great. When we arrived at hotel we were met buy a closed front door and nobody to help with bags. The front desk clerk explained that our room was not yet ready and to goto the bar for some complemenatry drinks. After waiting 2 hours for our room we finally can start to relax. Well upon entering room the smell of something horrible is overwhelming . The front desk informed us there was no other rooms and they would bring up some air freshner. We packed our bags and headed over to "x" hotel and were able to get to our pampered weekend away from home.
We booked thru hotwire which we have a high percentage of positive outcomes. I was very happy when we saw that we would be staying at The Knickerbocker-as I had stayed when I was younger. We reserved a King Non-Smoker. Upon arriving we were told that they did not have that and we only had the choice of a Smoking room. When argued they stated "well you booked thru hotwire so you do not have priority". As we entered the room I noticed the bathroom door was off track and the bathroom light did not turn on. We called the front desk and they fixed the door but not the light. Later that eveing as I took a shower the seal around the shower was so poor water got all over the floor and towels. Also, I must add the room reaked of smoke. The next day when we checked the front desk clerk asked how our stay was and when we told him the problems, he told us the total and had not concern of our issues. We also checked in our bags for the day, and the bellmen came quickly and made very rude comments about us hurrying up so he could get on with his day. We realized a bit later that we forgot something in one of the bags and was told they would not get them back out. STAY AWAY-even if you get a good deal!!
This will be the only hotel I will never forget in my life. Hotel Monaco Chicago has the best staff and also the rooms are also nice. Whether if it's a King Delux Room or a Tranquility Suite, all of the rooms are luxorious and are themed based, so it suits ones personality. Even if you are a super sized person, like me with a height of 6"4', there are special "Tall Rooms" just for you. My days went very fast when I stayed there becuase there was so much to do there. In the mornings I would do yoga from the Yoga Channel. Then I would go downstairs and drink one of their complimentary coffees while reading the morning newspaper. Before I go to a meeting, I would get my shoes shined by their complimentary shoeshine service. After I come back from the meeting, I would go to their fitness rooms and workout on their fully-equipped machines. I just didn't want to leave that hotel; so I decided that the next time I come to Chicago, I will surely stay at Hotel Monaco Chicago.
I would not recommend this hotel. Although it is in a good area, the room was very small and is getting rather dated. The room had extensive damage. The paint on the bathroom ceiling was peeling. The wallpaper in the bathroom was peeling. The wood work in the bathroom looked like it had been chewed on. There was mold and stains on the bathroom tile. The room was very small. There was not room for a sofa. Just a small faded chair and ottoman. The carpet had stains on it. Also, the bed was comfortable, but there was not a top sheet, just the bottom sheet and a comforter. Overall I was not satisfied with the hotel for the price that was charged. I have stayed in other hotels in the area that provided much more space, cleanliness, and value for the money paid.
My wife and I stayed two nights at the Talbott at the end of February. This little hotel was the perfect place for us. The lobby is very small but also cozy, and with both fireplaces going it was a welcoming atmosphere coming in from the cold. The staff was very friendly and efficient. The room was pretty spacious, and the king bed was extremely comfortable. We had a seventh floor room facing delaware st, so there was really no view. The bathroom was a good size, including two sinks and a spacious tub/shower. There was also free wireless internet...a big plus for us. Perhaps the best thing about the Talbott is the location. We were only a few steps from State, Rush, and North Michigan. Tons of shopping, bars, and good food are easily within walking distance. This makes the Talbott a great place for tourists who want to walk around and take everything in. We highly recommend the Talbott, and will gladly stay again on return trips. 
Not worth the price, even a little bit. A week prior to scheduled check-in, receiving an email for a room upgrade and accepting, of course, upon arrival, nobody knows about it. Typical. After nobody was doing anything about it, I notified them of this stay's review will be posted on the newly-developing TheChicagoCritic . Com, all of a sudden they figured out the problem and even offered an early check-in. Too little, Too late. Very small room with 2 queens instead of the "Select King" I was supposed to have. Windows didnt open, TV took forever to change channels and the bathroom fan was not controllable. The faboulous Lodge Net system that every hotel in the world uses for ease of checkout for guests, well there was no check out feature. This shit hole couldn't hold a candle to the Las Vegas Hard Rock!
The Amalfi Hotel has a beautiful website and interior decorating, but that's about it. When my wife and I got here, we were given keys to a room that had not even been cleaned! The Internet access promised on the hotel's website was down, so I couldn't catch up on any of the business I had intended to do, and my wife thought that the dark design details in the room made her feel claustrophobic, like she was sleeping inside a Salvador Dali painting. All in all, this hotel was not worth the money, especially since we spent most of our time enjoying the city--something more casual and comfortable would have been better, and it would probably have been cleaner, too!
For a supposed 4-star hotel, I was not very impressed at akk. The lobby was nice and modern-looking, but there were no bellhops outside to help with bags or open the doors (we didn't arrive that late at night). Additionally, when we walked into the hotel late one night, there was trash and flowers strewn on the lobby floor and, it seemed that there were always water bottles and glasses near the seating area as you walked in. Where was the staff to clean up? That's not a very welcoming sight. The rooms were nice and clean and provided a great view, but the actual location was farther than I would have preferred from Michigan Avenue, andi it was also a little too far south. Area recommendations Rush Street was a lot of fun at night!
I recently had the misfortune of staying at the Swissotel Chicago hotel in Illinois, and it was one of the worse travel experiences I have ever had! First off the shuttle that was suppose to pick us up at the air port was late by over an hour! Then when the bus finally came, the driver was nice enough but it was clearly his first day on the job since he got lost going back to the hotel. Finally when we got to the hotel they didn;t seem to have our reservation for the 2nd room. (my wife and I stay in one room, our teenage girls usually stay in their own room.) So after the very rude clerk at the corner did nothing to help us we were forced to pack into one room. we would have rented another room but they had no vacancies left. They hotel did have a large occupancy rate, but that only slowed up everything else. our room service was late almost everytime we ordered, and the hotel restaurant never had a wait less then 45 mins. The quality of the room was fair enough, but it was almost impossible to get room service, we could not get fresh towels for almost 2 days! We were suppose to stay for a week, we left after 4 days and found a different hotel to stay at. I would not recommend this place to anyone! stay away!
After reading the reviews & getting an excellent rate through travelzoo, I decided to give this hotel a try. I must say it was a great choice! The location is perfect, just off from N Michigan Ave, walking distance from everything. The staff was very helpful and friendly, and the room was excellent. They gave us a corner room w/a great view. As many have posted, the bed & pillows were very comfortable (I am very picky about that). I slept well every night! The renovation is almost done & did not bother us one bit. I highly recommend this hotel. 
The Hotel Monaco claims to be a "boutique Chicago luxury hotel," but it certainly was neither luxurious nor stylish. The pictures posted on the website imply that the guest is going to stay in a room with an amazing view, but that was certainly not the case for this customer! The decor, which might be "cutesy" or "charming" to some was actually quite tacky and outdated. The bathrooms had a musty smell and did not meet the cleanliness standards of a hotel claiming to be "one of the top 40 hotels U.S." Don't be fooled by a snappy website with some selective photos--this hotel does not live up to its billing. You will be disappointed, as was I, if you expect anything more than a run-of-the-mill experience at a merely average hotel.
The heating in our room didn't work and wasn't repaired depite numerous requests, the rooms were very small, the litter in the bin remained in the bin for the whole stay, the cleaner made the bed but nothing else, when we returned home my credit card statement showed that the hotel had charged me for the 5 night stay despite my having pre-paid through a travel agent, it took the hotel 2 months to re-credit my card without an apology or offer to pay for my numerous trans-Atlantic phone calls to them.
My Stay at Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers was wonderful, i stayed in the traditional guest room and i slept good, i was able to get to my meeting well rested, thank you Sheraton! -Bobby
My three night stay at Fairmont Chicago Millennium Park was the perfect way to end a weekend. The hotel has a classy but warm atmosphere with color tones that please the mind and soothe the eyes. The staff was ready to help at any notice and always greeted you with a cheerful smile. The mySpa was the getaway of a life time. My only complaint would be that the bed covers were a bit too stiff as they were new and clean but the softness of the bed whisked me away to a deep slumber in no time. Well worth the money and I know my next stay will be much longer. 
everything that i read from other reviews was pretty much on the money, they have excellent customer service, the employees there really cared about their guests, there was always coffee, tea, hot chocolate in the lobby, good hot breakfast and dinner with wine and beer, the doormen were nice and willing to help out for directions, the room did the job, there was a kitchen, 2 flat screen tv's, and a pullout couch included, it was close to the "eL", but for us we found the buses to be more useful. I would recommend getting a pass, we got a 3 day pass and it was well worth it for $14 which we got at jewel osco, not too far from the hotel, for the most part the majority of the people that were there were older people on a business trip and families, but us three girls didn't mind, so i would definitely recommend this place, it was one of the cheapest places were found out of all the other hotels. 
Our vacation was highlighted by a four day stay at Homewood Suites by Hilton Chicago Downtown.I believed it would be the best part of the trip; I discovered it was an unfolding nightmare. While in our lovely room on the fifteenth floor, a voice emanating from the phone, informed us of the pending fire alarm and what procedures to follow. Anyone above the tenth floor was instructed to go into the bathroom, wet towels and place them along the bottom of the closed door.Do not use the elevators and wait for further instructions.We nervously waited for twenty minutes without any further communications from the voice in the phone.We then decided to exit via the stairs, realizing too late that once you entered the stairwells, doors behind you were locked.We continued to travel downward, against the backdrop music of sirens and loud muffled speakers.Obviously, we were rescued without any physical injuries; yet emotionally we were damaged.I now choose my hotels in the range of ten floors or less.
For starters, I had trouble reaching the front desk. Every time I called it would ring endlessly! When finally I did reach someone, she was snooty, impolite, and altogether unhelpful. Being from the south and not knowing anything about Chicago I was hoping the staff would have been more helpful in guiding me around such a large metropolitan area. As I was there on business, I was really looking forward to the Wi-Fi access so that my business activity would go uninterrupted. Unfortunately, this was not the case. After multiple log in attempts I ended up going to a local "internet bar." As attractive as the rooms and the hotel itself were, the complete and utter lack of service and delivering up to expectations was disappointing.
Stayed here for 5 nights while visiting Chicago for the first time. The location is great, the hotel has been recently renovated and our room was very spacious with two bathrooms. The lobby is a great place to chill and have a drink. Didn't eat in the restaurant but there are a few good ones nearby and we were beside The Art Institute, Cultural Centre & Macys. Staff were friendly. Would recommend it as a base to tour the city. 
This was my first time in Chicago and I tell you they really made me feel like a million bucks. I took a taxi straight from the airport and was greeted at the door by a kind gentlemen who offered to help me with my luggage and assisted me to the check-in counter. I made my way up to my room, which was spectacularly bright and well-lit, then I ordered some food. All in all the food was delicious and the staff were fantastic. If I didn't have such a short stay in Chicago I would have stayed in my hotel room all day!
Elegant lobby, comfy beds, nice sheets but, we were given a (not fancy, a little dated) room on the 5th floor which had a view of the monstrous venting structure, and was located off the lobby so we heard the elevator all night. At the Hilton, one is charged for Internet access on each device per hour. (We stayed in the middle of Ohio and received total access for free.) We didn't drink the $6.00 water or try the $28. Breakfast buffet. The staff was friendly, but of course you tip for a smile. They did give us a cot for free as we had asked for a room with a fold-out couch as we were a party of 5. Didn't use the gym or pool on the 8th floor, but looked nice (small pool.) No view of the water possible, though we were right at Grant Park. We tried to view the fireworks from a higher story, no such luck. ...read more
My husband and I were sorely disappointed in this hotel. We had requested a non smoking room, and right off we were hit with the stinch of stale cigarettes when we opened the door. The front desk was not responsive to our needs at all, but we did finally get moved to a new room. The water pressure in the shower was hardly enough to get the shampoo out of our hair and the beds were lumpy. I was very disappointed in the workout room, it was very small so I decided to swim laps instead, but when I got to the pool it didn't look like it had been maintained all week. Needless to say we won't make the mistake of staying with Homewood Suites again.
We had an issue with housekeeping and the hotel management did not handle it well. They were subject to a brief staff strike and did not inform guests and in fact failed to tell us about the strike and our room never was cleaned. After 4 calls and several hours we were able to get clean towels. Overall service other than check in was poor for a reportedly 4 star hotel.
First, several day s prior to my stay, I called and spoke at length with the concierge and made a breakfast order for room-service Saturday and Sunday. Saturday they didn't bring breakfast - and when I called room-service they stated they never got the advance order from the concierge. When they finally did bring it - they brought the wrong thing.. and then brought the wrong order again on Sunday. I was further inconvenienced by in-room dining staff when we ordered room service Saturday night. The food was limp and uninspired. Further, I ordered soup - which arrived without a spoon. When I called in-room dining to request a spoon, I was told one would be forthcoming. 15 minutes later, a waiter arrived with a menu. When I explained I already had food and I didn't need a menu - I needed a spoon, he had the audacity to argue with me. I respectfully requested he return with a spoon and he agreed to do so. Another 15 minutes (and one bowl of cold soup) later I decided to call in-room dining back to request (again) they send someone with a spoon. They too argued with me and expressed that they'd already sent someone with a spoon. I explained that they had not - that I had received a menu I didn't request, but that no spoon was forthcoming. Another 15 minutes later, a spoon finally arrived. Thanks - for charging me $100+ so that I could argue over cold, flavorless food. In addition to the gross customer service, surly attitude, and sorry food, I found the room woefully lacking. It reeked exhaust fumes so much so that on Saturday night I woke up from the smell. Further, I had specifically requested when I booked the reservation that you keep me away from the elevators... I was right next to the elevators and had the displeasure of listening to them ding all night long as other guests came and went.
My daughter and I woke in the morning wanting to go swimming. When we arrived at the pool the water was covered by a white scum. I then attempted to use both of the phones at the pool, one white phone and one emergency red phone, to call the desk. Both were out of service!!!! I am glad there wasn't an emergency. As we were exited the pool area I ran into a hotel employee and told her about the problems and then asked her to call us when the pool was clean.... never heard back.
I loved the Ambassador! What a great hotel. It's really beautiful, and the room was absolutely striking, very classic and elegant. Everything was done really well: the staff treated me like a regular. This is a top-notch hotel, the best place I've stayed in a long time. My only complaint is that I wish it was on the Mile, but that's it. 
I called on December 6th, 2010 at 3 p.m. to book a room for an upcoming weekend getaway, and was taken aback when the phone was picked up and promptly hung up without a word. Thinking this might have been a simple mistake, I gave it another try. A woman introducing herself as "Toni" answered the phone, rushed through her introduction, sounding incredibly bored and annoyed that she had to answer the phone. Barely letting a second go by after her introduction, she gave a snotty "Hello?!" before I could open my mouth and tell her "Never mind." Never has a hotel answered my call so rudely. I'd like to give the hotel the benefit of the doubt and pin this unpleasant experience to "Toni"; however I will not be calling back again in hopes to stay at this hotel during this trip.
Just returned from 2 nights at the Ambassador and I have to say that I am very happy that I chose this hotel. It is true that this is an older hotel. But it is well kept and it does not lack in style and grandeur. (think of the hotel from the Shining, minus the elevator of blood and creepy twins.) From the check-in desk to the surprise turn down service from the maids, I was made to feel like royalty. A special acknowledgment goes out to the doormen who helped me with all my tourist questions. Also the location of the hotel is great. Close to all the action, but on a quite residential street with beautiful old mansions. I also got a sweet $89 per night room by booking on travelzoo. That was just an added bonus however. Even if I paid $200 per night, my impression of the Ambassador would not change. Highly, highly recommended. 
My stay at the James Hotel in Chicago was fantastic! The hotel was clean, modern and everything I had hoped for. The staff was fabulous and went above and beyond all of our expectations. All of our needs were more than met and I will be recommending this hotel to all of our friends and associates.
It has been a couple of years since I stayed here, and got it for a night last weekend on Hotwire. I paid only $100 and stayed a Saturday night. I was very impressed with the redecorating done to the hotel. The lobby has always been great, but the rooms were a little shabby in the past. Not any more, as the hotel has been redecorated in the last few years. The location is still amazing, and with the Berghoff open again, there is a great restaurant within walking distance. 
I was scheduled to stay at the Hard Rock in June, but had to cancel. I had booked the hotel back in January. When I called six days before my arrival date to cancel, I was told that I would be charged for my stay because I did not cancel seven days in advance. I told the customer service rep that I had never heard of such a practice, but she said, in a very smug manner, that I was told back in January. I honestly don't remember being told of the cancellation policy, but think it is a unprofessional practice to capture some additional dollars since it is not an industry standard to require a seven day cancellation policy when you book directly with the hotel. I, for one, will never stay at a Hard Rock hotel and will make sure that my friends and business associaties know of this unfair practice.
Our suite at the Knickerbocker are quite nice, but the behavior and attitude of the staff is beyond abysmal. First, a member of the staff entered our room mid-day unannounced only to apologize after realizing that he failed to verify that we were present. Not a tremendous problem, but when the young woman at the front desk replied "What do you want me to do about it" with the tone of a flippant teenager, I began to suspect that a severe deficiency in manners may have been evident in the staff. Fast forward to this evening. Following a lovely meal off the premises, we chose to turn in a bit early at 11:30 pm only to discover that despite our best intentions, the bass from a party downstairs was more than audible in our room. Acting prudently and with restraint, we decided to phone the front desk to inquire as to why our room had been inadvertently annexed into the party downstairs, but yet again we were met with a curt and quite rude response. Sean at the front desk informed us that the party was a greater priority for the hotel, and that the family dictated that the music was to be set at a certain volume. On one hand I appreciated his honesty, but on the other, I truly would have preferred that he at least pretended to care about the guests who chose to stay at his property. Since we're out of options for the evening, we've decided to stay up and try to watch TV for the time being, but given the circumstances, the staff could have easily made up for the negative situations that arose in quick succession. Also, I was alarmed to learn that while I slept the prior night, a possible gang-related shooting took place mere blocks from the property. This wouldn't have been a concern if like nearby hotels, the Knickerbocker chose to enlist any type of security measures within their lobby. Would I stay here again? Maybe on a dare, or if someone else was footing the bill. Yet I've had better experiences in road side motels, and the employee training regimen could use a serious revamping to better serve the interests of the guests, and more importantly simple common sense.
I made reservations with the Chicago Fitzpatrick using their 800 number for two nights in June. I received no written confirmation with cancelation policy, etc. However, when I attempted to cancel my reservation the morning of my first night's reservation, I was told that they would charge me for one nights stay. They have a "3pm THE DAY BEFORE your first nights stay" policy. Even though the hotel was not sold out for the night they would not budge on the policy. This is not a common policy on Michigan Ave. I'd advise making your reservations someplace that offers more flexiblity for emergencies or sends a written confirmation with policy. It was a very expensive mistake on my part to book with this hotel!
Negative points: 1. I guess they gave me the worst room. It's small room with a king size bed even though I'd requested a room with two queen beds. 2. No roll away bed was available so I had to sleep on the floor. 3. The tub in the bathroom would not drain. 4. No exhaust fan in the bathroom. 5. broken furniture. Plus point: 1. Convenient location.
Our third stay at the Homewood Suites Chicago proved to be just as great as the previous two. The staff are consistently friendly, polite and professional - and this applies whether they are working at the front door, servicing the rooms, managing the breakfast room or on the reception desk. They genuinely seem happy to be working here and can't do enough for their guests. The rooms are large and clean and seem to have good insulation from each other (we didn't hear a thing from our neighbours and the hotel was quite busy). The hotel is well placed for walking to the shops on Michigan Ave, or catching a bus or subway. There is a Jewel Osco and a Trader Joes each within a couple of blocks, which are perfect for stocking up on groceries etc. My husband heartily recommends 'Binnies Beverage Depot' for a huge variety of beer. Now all we need is an excuse to return to Chicago next year - then we can make it four years on the run at the Homewood Suites, because we wouldn't stay anywhere else! 
We just returned from a girls shopping /sight-seeing trip.The Palmer House was like home away from home.The hotel is undergoing renovations but we did not notice any inconveniences or hear any noise from the work.The lobby was breathtaking, all dressed up for Christmas.The staff from check-in to housekeeping was very welcoming and friendly.Our room was updated with two beds and two separate baths which was great for everyone to have their own personal space.I would not hesitate to recommend this hotel to anyone.Chicago is a great town. 
This a great property, excellent location and wonderful staff. Everyone was very accommodating and polite. The room I had was on the 23rd floor and was like a suite, with a living area and a bedroom. The living room was spacious, with a plasma TV, a desk and a couch. The beds were very comfortable and the toiletries of very good quality. In the closed they placed an umbrella, which came in handy, it rained the whole time I was in Chicago. The internet connection is $9.95/24hrs. Great place, I will return for sure. 
-Review of the Hard Rock Hotel- I find that the Hard Rock Hotel, located in Chicago, has extrodinary scenary. The hotel is extremely clean with shining furniture and the rooms are breathtaking. Hungry? Visit this hotel for yourself to see what excellence they provide at the dinner tables. The hotel also host events such as ballet, fun in the bar and a dj to name a few. This hotel is definitely worth your while. I will most definitely visit again. Book your reservation as soon as possible and don't forget your camera!
I wish to express my dissatisfaction with my stay at the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower. My husband and I had planned a trip to Chicago for our tenth wedding anniversary. We had gone to great expense to fly his parents in from California so they could have time with their grandchildren. My husband and I had not gone on a honeymoon because he we got deployed to Iraq the week after we got married. Everyone was so excited! Mark and I had reservations for one of the junior suites. We hadn't gone to Chicago before to be tourists and were looking forward to the view which was offered. Unfortunately, when we got to our room, the view was disappointing. We had requested a non-smoking room and were assigned to one, but it was obvious to us that someone had smoked in there. I am asthmatic and became very ill. We asked to be moved to another room, but were told there were no other rooms (even downgrades) available. Nothing was done to try to make up for this. Because of my health, my husband and I checked out within hours of arriving for our romantic anniversary weekend. This is not how I had imagined spending such a special time. Now, when I think of my 10th anniversary, I will always have this memory to tarnish it.
 My wife and I's stay at the Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers proved to be the perfect complement to our time spent visiting and exploring the Windy City. Upon our arrival, we were immediately welcomed by the beautiful design of the first-floor lobby and the friendly demeanor of the desk and bell service staff. In seemingly no time at all we were in our clean and well-furnished room with a beautiful and peaceful view of Lake Michigan. In terms of accommodations, I have never personally stayed at a hotel that I could complement more. On our very first night, my wife took advantage of a message therapy session while I swam a few laps in the heated indoor swimming pool. We followed our time apart with a very relaxing time at the Chi bar, which had a very enlivening and laid-back atmosphere. Retiring to our rooms, I couldn't help but remark to my wife about the quality of our room and the bed in particular. I had a very comfortable night's sleep and woke up just on time thanks to a spot-on wake up call from the desk staff. After a quick bite to eat the LB Bistro, we headed out to sight-see. Overall, I can't recommend the Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers enough. As far as this customer is concerned, it is the only place to stay if you are in the Chicago area and are looking for accommodations with the best customer service, atmosphere, and amenities. I couldn't recommend it more. 
I want to issue a travel-warning to folks who might sign up for the weekend deal they offer through travelzoo from time to time: The deal says "free breakfast" included in the price. However, what they don't tell you, is that the breakfast consists of a cup of coffee and a bisquit (or two)! Moreover, you need to ask for these "tickets" at the lobby when you check in - they won't give them to you automatically! We stayed there over Christmas '03, and we, and I noticed several guests who bought the same package, had a rather unpleasant experience! The hotel is nice though, if you don't consider their lousy service!
I was very much looking forward to our stay at this hotel, after hearing all the good things about it. Unfortunately, it was a very underwhelming experience, to say the least. But let me begin with the things that I do like about the hotel. First off, it is located my favorite part of Chicago - the leafy, affluent part of town that is Chicago's equivalent of Manhattan's Upper East Side, complete with sidewalks, quiet tree-lined streets, real old-school townhouses (instead of ugly towering monstrosities that are 21st century condominiums), cute boutiques (instead of Gap, Banana Republic and other mainstream mass-produced brands) and, of course, Hermes of Paris (which warrants a separate mention). I also like the small intimate lobby area with old leather couches, cherry colored wooden furnitures, area rugs and distinct artwork. The very reason why I always tend to gravitate toward smaller boutique hotels instead of impersonal chains. I definitely love the room. While the space issue is not as bad in Chicago as it is in Manhattan, getting a 400-sqft guestroom for our weekend getaway is not an easy task. So we were delighted to see that our room comes with generous, ample bathroom, double sink, massive king bed AND still enough space to walk around, do a chicken dance, and strut my Herve and Louboutins in. My only reservation was the lack of natural light - the windows were definitely inadequate to allow sunlight to find its way into our 11th-floor room, but then again Delaware St is not exactly the widest street in town and there are buildings in front of us, so can't have it all! Yet one thing that really disappointed us was the service, or lack thereof. I mean, seriously. They don't call it the 'hospitality' industry for no reason. I did pay a premium to stay in smaller boutique hotels such as this so I do get a service that is a little bit more personalized than the kind that I would be getting from say, a 3000-room Vegas hotel. First, I called in to reconfirm my reservation. The lady on the phone was anything but courteous and competent. First off, she was not able to find my reservation and I was transferred to the front desk staff, to whom I had to explain myself all over again (my pet peeve when it comes to on-the-phone customer service). The person who manned the reception desk was not friendly, nor was he at all competent either. Case in point - he had to send the slip of paper on which I agree to the nightly rate and duration of stay up to the room after we checked in, which clearly indicated that he must have forgotten when we were actually down there. But the real kicker was when we ordered room service after arriving - it was about 1AM. As a general rule, I am never, ever, a big fan of room service, having had my fair share of bad food that they slap 18% gratuity, 10.5% tax (and still expect a tip) on during my days globetrotting on the company's expense account. Think overcooked steaks, lukewarm soup, bread hard enough to knock someone out, and ice-creams that are already half melted by the time it reaches your suite. So I really wasn't expecting hotels as small as Talbott to have a 24-hour room service, but lo and behold, they do. I placed an order of chicken BLT, which (to my initial delight) came in within 20 minutes. Then after the customary of the invoice and the involuntary yet customary tip of $2 on top of the 18% service fee (refer above) I opened the cover only to find something that looked like it was picked up from the garbage bin, microwaved and served on a plate with a bag of Lay's chips (lightly salted flavor). The bread looked like someone stomped on it, the L and T looked like it was 2 days old, the B was unrecognizable, and the chicken was burnt and cold. It was pathetic room service at its finest. We did get the item taken off our bill (rightfully so too) but the front desk person was, instead of apologetic, defiant. The whole thing was just very upsetting and for a hotel as high-end as this to be able to leave such a bad impression within the first hour of arriving, it's quite an accomplishment in and of itself. We won't be coming back, unfortunately.
I am writing about my recent stay at the Ambassador East Hotel. I just wanted to let you know what a wonderful team you have working there. Everyone from check-in to check-out couldn't have been more helpful or personable. It made my mundane business trip a very pleasureable one. The hotel is spotless, very comfortable and the restaurant is one of Chicago's finest. You really offer the finest quality in both product and service. The only complaint I have is that internet access is not free. I would just like to mention one person in particular- Sofie. She worked on the front desk and she went above and beyond to make my stay as smooth as possible. She even helped me out with taxi services and local recommendations. I shall look forward to returning next month. Thank you. Yours, P. Grady 
I was very satisfied after staying at the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower. The service was excellent, as the staff was very helpful and polite. The beds were very comfortable, and the rooms were very spacious. I will definitely be returning to this hotel.
The Ambassador East is a particularly crappy property, given the numerous quality hotels in and around the Gold Coast. Unfortunately, I saw an amazing rate and decided to book -- this experience will be a reminder that you get what you pay for. While the lobby was gorgeous (and appears to match the photos on the website) the room I was assigned was run down, and looked nothing like the photos posted on the website. It looked like someone had put a quick coat of paint on the walls, but the furniture was old and the fixtures in the bathroom were rusty. The room also smelled of must or mildew. While the room did have air-conditioning as advertised, it was an in-window unit that sounded like it was on its last leg. I was only here for a single night, but had I been here for anywhere longer I would have requested a refund. Please, if you're staying in this part of town, do yourself a favor and book at any one of the numerous other properties around here. The Hampton Inn and Hilton Garden Inn are both nearby, clean, and often have special-offers -- these aren't the only properties in the area, but both of these will save you a potentially unpleasant stay.
Hotel Monaco is in a really great location, only a block away from the Miracle mile and a couple of blocks from Millenium Park. Sears Tower is also well within walking distance and if you don't mind walking you won't have a problem walking to Greek Town and Lincoln Park (we did). The daily, complimentary, wine hour is a really nice touch that we unfortunately were only around once to try out. If you can, leave your car behind, you won't need it and the parking is quite pricey, which is not very surprising considering the location. Everything was clean, fresh and modern and the staff very helpful. The only bad thing was that the noise from the elevated train around "the loop" was quite loud and that our room happened to be next to the maid's supply room so it was quite busy in the morning. 
Having traveled to Chicago on business once before, I was looking forward to spending some vacation time in the city and wanted to have the best accommodations for my trip. After some research, I decided that the Palmer House Hilton sounded like the perfect place to stay. And, in a way, it was perfect -- perfectly awful. After reading some positive reviews and checking out the hotel's website, I was expecting a luxury room that was a notch above the ordinary. However, my standard guest room, which the hotel's website describes as "deluxe," was very bland and generic and reminded me of rooms I had stayed in at budget chain hotels, not pricier historic hotels, such as this one. The carpeting looked dingy, so I had to wear shoes or slippers any time I walked on it and there was a gap in the curtains that made it impossible to block out the sunlight in the morning -- or the horrendous view of a brick wall that I had from my window. In addition, the sink in the bathroom dripped constantly and was an annoyance all night long. Everything cost extra, including the gym, the pool and the spa, and the restaurant prices were outrageous. This hotel is overpriced, overrated and definitely subpar. I wouldn't recommend it to my worst enemy.
I will never stay here again. I was lured in by the hotel's pictures showing a fabulous suite. Instead I arrived to find cheap furniture that smelled of old cheese. I called the front desk to see if there was another room available. I was put on hold for five minutes and no one came back on the line. I ended up going to the front desk myself. I was ignored and not given assistance until I interrupted the front desk clerk who seemed to be on a personal call. The clerk apologize but then looked at me with an attitude when I requested another room because mine smelled like old cheese. I was informed that there were no other rooms available but that they would send up housekeeping. Housekeeping sprayed some Febreeze on the couch and then left. I tried to relax by turning on the TV in the bedroom. I sat on the bed and saw something scurry under the pillow. I checked the corner of the mattress and found bedbugs. I packed up my bags and left after that. I did get a refund on the room after some complaining. I went across town to the Marriott where I had a much better stay.
From the moment I stepped up to the front entrance my luxury service began! I enjoyed every minute @ the fairmont! The King room was spacious and the decor chic! The coffee maker was the coolest and the bathroom is huge! I really like the separate shower, tub, and separate door for the toilet. The desserts and cheese spread at ENO so yummy. Before the fairmont the W hotel was my favorite chain of hotels to stay at. 
My wife and I stayed at the Ambassador East Hotel last month for my son's wedding. When we got there nobody helped us with our bags and they took forever to Valet our car. After waiting 15 minutes to get my car parked he expected a tip, which I found rude. After finally getting to our room I noticed crumbs on the floor and a dirty bathroom. I was extremely disappointed with the room and the service. I will not recommend this place to anyone.
My husband and I had a wonderful time at Swissotel Chicago, when my husband went for a trade fair. We got a classic double room for two nights and it was definitely worth the money. Clean and comfortable, chic and new fixtures. The view of the pier was magnificent. Staff were most helpful and prompt when we requested extra towels and pillow. It's right next to riverside restaurants and river is very pretty.
I had a large, roomy, clean 2 bed room with a large bathroom, big minibar snack assortment and was tucked away nicely in the corner so that there was no hall noise. Customer Service here was absolutely incredible, from the doorman to the front desk, to the gentleman who delivered my toothpaste to my room when I requested it. Sure, you get a little outside noise, but it is a big city, that is not unusual! I really enjoyed my stay here and strongly recommend it. 
I travel often and whenever I travel I prefer to stay at Hilton properties. I am always satisfied with my stay at Hilton. locations. However, I have never stayed at a Homewood Suites location. This property was awesome and it was great to have the same satisfication when I arrived. The lobby area was excellent and the greeting from the front desk staff was wonderful! My room was in great condition! Absolutely no complaints. I just figured that a property like this should be recognized. Great job staff!!!! I will definitely return in the future!
If you're looking for luxuary, look no more. The Conrad is the best. I was in Chicago on business, and had to stay much longer than anticipated. A coworker suggested this hotel and boy am I glad he did. The location is perfect, you're close to everything. The best part is the Conrad is a smoke free hotel. I'll be back soon. Very Satisfied
We stayed 2 nights at the Knickerbocker and could not have had a better stay. The hotel has recently renovated there rooms. The staff could not have been more friendly and helpful from Dave and Cora at the martini bar to Julie at the front desk who help out with an upgrade for us. The hotel has everything you need for your stay and is close to all the fun that Chicago offers. Our pick for THE CITY is the Knickerbocker. JOHN and JUDY. 
We arrived at 10:30 am on a Friday, and they had a room ready for us by 11:30 am, mind you check in is not until 3:00pm. We got our room on Priceline for $65.00 per night and stayed 3 nights. We were upgraded - for free - to a suite. I think I was so blown away by that, that I forgot to thank them at check-in! Our room was fantastic. It also had a wet bar and a fridge. The bathroom was quite large and had a nice sized closet with many hangers. I knew from previous reviews to not touch the mini-bar. The bed and pillows were very comfortable. The room was very clean. Every employee there went out of their way to be friendly and helpful. We stayed on the 25th floor of the east tower and had a quiet room. Yes, you could hear people in the hallways, but only because they were rude and were yelling. These were not children, they were adults. I don't know why everyone complains about $48 for parking. This is Chicago and every other hotel we saw charged just as much, some without in/out privledges. We didn't use any of the restaurants or the health club. We tried to eat at the Corner Bakery but it was too crowded. Breakfast at nearby Houlihan's had a buffet for $9.99 per person. Also the grocery store behind the hotel is great. There is a 7-11 not too far away. I don't know why there are so many bad reviews on this hotel. Yes, it's a big hotel. If you don't want a busy lobby, don't stay in a 2,000 plus room hotel!! I loved the Hotel and would recommend it to anyone. Not one problem. Wasn't too busy for me. Would stay here again in a heartbeat. 
The Millennium Hotel Knickerbocker sounds fine, and the website is pretty, but the reality is an over-hyped, overpriced, reality-isn't-as-good-as-fantasy package. The catering they offer is a joke; you can pick up better food for half the price at a dozen or more places in the Chicago area. While the rooms were cleaner than most, there was a lingering unpleasant odor from the cleaners they used that aggravated my sinuses, and when I called to complain about it, a nasal-voiced clerk blew me off. The rooms look small but cozy when you book online, but when you get there in person, you realize just how tiny they are. Trying to fit inside of one makes you think of being in a sardine can -- did I mention that it smelled like cleaning solution? I also found a hair on my supposedly clean bed, which made me wonder just how thorough their housekeeping staff is. In fact, it looks like all of their rooms are comparatively small; you'd get better prices and a far better room from the Hilton.
I stayed at the hotel for 5 nights in mid-March and was so disappointed with everything. The room was small, the carpets in the looby were smelly, no bathtub in the washroom and view of brick walls from the windows. Not even free internet which even the cheapest hotels offer these days. It costs $10/day to connect to internet. If you want to use internet in the lobby, minimum charge is $5 per use. To use the phone in the rooms for local calls, it is $1.25/15mins and then 10 cents every min. Even the local calls are charged, what a rip off!!! Every hotel I have stayed at offers free intercontinetal breakfast, of course no such thing at this hotel. No indoor pool, go figure. I won this from bidding process at priceline, I will be reluctant to use this service and this hotel in future.
Got a good deal on a weekend pacage in this Hotel and have to say it is the nicest stay I have had in more than a dozen business trips to Chicago. All rooms are Suites, staff is friendly and professional, Restaurant is out of this world and all the extras like a great health club, turn down service, complimentary morning beverages delivered to room and on and on. Room was very clean and every need was attended to without feeling intruded on. Will definately stay here again. 
The Swisshotel is awesome. Very high class. It is expensive , but so is every hotel in Chicago. It is off from the dingy areas of our city , yet a long walk to Navy Pier, so you will need to pay for the cab. Note to all the Magnificent Mile is boring as can be. I live in Chicago and the hotel is a better experience than the Mile of Navy (BORING) Pier. 
Very friendly staff - and helpfull with whatever ? you may have. Don't miss the wine bar and the hot chocolate bar. Spacious rooms. Perfect for business and for theatre guests. A little quiet area during weekends. 
This was our second time staying here. We were very much looking forward to our weekend at the Amalfi (based on how well the first stay was). It turned out better than our anticipation. The beds are very comfortable. 2 headed showers with a large bathroom. The hotel is also pleasantly quiet and easy to check-in and out. Our room was near the exercise room which helped motivate us to get in an hour morning workout. Then we were able to grab some complimentary fruit, pastries, juice and coffee on our floor (breakfast is on every floor). No great view from our room, but I don't think there are great views from most any room since it is only 5 floors. We didn't need to drive, take a cab or jump on the L the whole weekend since the hotel is centrally located. We easily walked to bars, blues clubs, restaurants, the hancock tower, the loop and the waterfront all from our hotel. The highlight of the hotel was the complimentary happy hour. Free top-shelf drinks and wonderful meats, cheeses, peppers, and breads. This ran from 5:30 to 7:00, and was a great warm-up to a nice dinner. This alone saved us a bundle in money that would of been spent eating and drinking out in the evening. And an extra money-saving tip...park at the self-park lot 2 blocks west of the hotel on Kinzie. Its $24 per night during the week and only $6 per night on the weekends. I think the hotel charges $30 to $40 per night to park. 
I'd expect a "luxury" hotel to pay more attention to details. The room really hadn't been thoroughly cleaned-- I found hairballs under the bed, the mirrors were streaked, etc. The desk staff took forever to even acknowledge me when I was checking in; three of them, two on the phone, and nobody even made eye contact for 5 minutes. Then, they gave the vaguest answers to some pretty basic questions about the neighborhood; you'd think they'd know where to find a Starbucks. The internet was ridiculously slow the whole two days I was there.
I accompanied my husband on a business trip to Chicago back in September and we stayed at the Millennium Knickerbocker Hotel. The place was absolutely oozing with old-fashioned charm! Also, there were plenty of shopping opportunities within walking distance, so I shopped while my husband worked. It just doesn't get any better than that! I loved the service we received and the ambiance of that grand old hotel, and I'd definitely stay there again!
I had a wonderful time at the James Hotel while on business in Chicago. The rooms are modern, tasteful and well-kept, while the staff was responsive and efficient. This was the perfect place to unwind after working all day, but also provided an ideal atmosphere to do some more work. 
I am a fan of Kimpton Hotels, however I have never experienced top service as I did at the Hotel Allegro. Even before my visit, concierge Mark Kraemer advised us on things to see, and booked tickets in advance to Second City. We were welcomed warmly on arrival, and the bellman checked up on us as we came and went from the hotel. All the staff have a personal interest in making your stay a great experience. The hotel is next to City Hall, where I had some business. We had a large quiet room, and used room service-the meal came quickly, and included a a bonus fruit cup. Enjoyed the pasta night (20 dollars for a three course meal) at the 312 restaurant-the starter and the dessert were wonderful, the main pasta a bit too salty. And that is the only complaint I can make-from start to finish, if you want attentive service, this is the place to be. Thank you, Hotel Allegro, for a great stay. I can't wait to return. 
I have just returned from my first stay at the remodeled Fairmont Chicago Millennium Park and all I can say is fabulous! The modern decor and style hits you the minute you walk in. The front desk is a work of art. I stayed in the anything but standard guestroom. The modern decor, the beautiful artwork, this is the most relaxing hotel room I have ever stayed in. The bathroom is like having your own personal spa, all the marble tile is classic and modern at the same time. The rainfall showerhead is to die for people. If you have the time be sure to check out the fitness center and spa. Great new equipment to work up a sweat and all the pampering a body could ever needs awaits in the spa. I wish I could have stayed longer, next time I will be sure to add a couple of "me" days to my trip and I'm sure I won't even think of going outside those doors.
This lovely hotel has only six floors, making it easy to get to elevators and down to reception. The building is dwarfed amongst all the skyscrapers around it. Trump's huge new tower is just down the street. The Amalfi looks recently refurbished, very modern, but warm and inviting. Bedrooms quite spacious with lovely linens and very, very comfortable beds. Bathroom quite small but roomy enough, with Aveda tolietries and constant hot water in the showers. Continental style breakfast is set out fresh every morning in front of the elevator of every floor. Great to stumble out of bed and grab a coffee etc (robes & slippers provided) without having to get dressed for a formal breakfast. Really enjoyed the Managers evening cocktail reception, especially the Amalfitinis. A nice way to relax after a hard days' shopping! Location is great for all the shops, transport, museums etc. Easy walking to everywhere. Staff also very friendly and welcoming. Would definately stay there again. 
I'll keep it short. My wife, daughter and I stayed at this hotel for 3 nights. We go on several vacations a year and this was a great hotel. Location: It is located in the center of the Magnificent Mile (Michigan Ave.), so it is near or easily accessible to everything you might want to do. Hotel: The hotel itself is very clean, as were the rooms. Maid service was excellent, including 2x daily cleaning and turndown service (I think they missed a night). Service: Every staff member we encountered was super friendly and kind. They always have someone at the lobby door greeting you with a smile. Every night we had milk and cookies waiting in our room (sometimes chocolates on our pillows). They always pushed the elevator button for you if they were near it. There was no shortage of people to ask things. My only conplaint was that the congierge was tough to get. They shouuld have more than one, or longer hours. Other: We had breakfast in the 676 Restaurant and it was very good, and well attended, appointed. They even carried my wifes plate to the table from the buffet. The pool was a nice addition and a hit with the kids. It was nice to go for a swim after a long day of walking. Pool and changing areas were spotless. Room: Clean, sunny and spacious. Probably over 400 sq. ft. - 2 TVs, couch, desk, chairs - all in perfect shape. The windows open for some fresh air. Pillows were pretty comfortable. With all aspects considered, I think this was an unbeatable value! I would not hesitate to stay again or recommend it to a friend. I truly have nothing negative to say about the hotel. It was a wonderful stay and we will miss being there. Omni has hit the right formula to make a guest feel like a welcomed person as opposed to just a nuisance or a number. The airlines have cornered the market on that. 
The Amalfi Hotel in Chicago advertises itself as family friendly, yet when I arrived with my children it was anything BUT family friendly. The staff seemed miffed and stuck up, and I had to wait for the personal check in. I was too worried that my kids would ruin the obviously really expensive furniture while I waited, and other guests (all single or couples without children) seemed annoyed every time I passed with my kids while I was trying to keep them entertained before we checked in. This might not be the best place to stay if you have a kid or two, even though it is advertised as such. I give you a great big Thumbs Down for false advertising, Amalfi.
My husband and I were planning our 1st year wedding anniversary and we wanted to go back and spend it in Chicago where we had first met. After spending several minutes frustratingly navigating The Talbott Hotel's website, I FINALLY was able to complete a reservation for a long weekend. After a long flight into Chicago, we were so ready to check in, shower, and lay down in our hotel room. However, once we arrived the unfriendly clerk behind the counter notified us that we did not have a reservation. I provided her with the confirmation email and she again said there must be a mistake because the room we reserved was already occupied. She begrudgingly found us a new room after what seemed like an hour of waiting. We then carried our own bags up to our room only to immediately be hit with a rancid smell of cigarette smoke as soon as we opened the door. I'm severely allergic to smoke and we ended up getting a refund and locating a much more accommodating and friendly hotel.
We stayed at the Millennium Knickerbocker last week and it was really wonderful. First off, the staff is excellent. All of our needs were addressed quickly and with a smile. The hotel really was the perfect launching pad for us to take in everything that Chicago has to offer. All of the shopping of Michigan Avenue was just steps from our room. We decided to go for the Shedd Aquarium package. We started the day with a really wonderful breakfast at the hotel and then thoroughly enjoyed our "all access pass" to the aquarium (very cool!). After our long days of sightseeing (and a quick stop at the wonderful martini bar), it was so nice to come back to the room which was elegant, but a very comfortable sanctuary from the busy city. To top it all off, they have the most incredible shower that I've ever used (and, even better, it's all "green"). What more can I say? The Millennium Knickerbocker was a huge part of what made our vacation so wonderful and memorable. I highly recommend it!
From the moment I stepped into the Ambassador East Hotel, I was very much impressed!! The entire staff was extremely helpful and very pleasant. The bell staff escorted my husband and I right up to our suite. Our suite was beyond belief. The atmosphere was very classy and romantic. My husband previously arranged for a bottle of champagne to be waiting in our room when we arrived. We had traveled to Chicago, from New York, for a romantic weekend get away. We had dinner that night at the hotel restaurant, The Pump House, and were very pleased. Dinner started with soup and a salad, main course meal and dessert, all for a reasonable price. We did a little local shopping the next day, after a very well rested night in their wonderfully comfortable king sized beds. Every interaction with the staff was a postitive experience. We enjoyed our weekend get away and would most definitely return to the Ambassador East Hotel the next time that we are in Chicago, Illinois. 5 stars....
I stayed at the Sofitel Chicago Water Tower hotel a couple of weeks ago while in Chicago for 3 nights. I must say, I was NOT impressed. This is an example of a hotel that tries too hard with little result except for inflating your bill. To start with, the hotel lobby was totally gaudy. It had sculptures and artwork that seemed meaningless and I guess was supposed to give an air of style. The room was ok I suppose, but certainly not worth the premium price I paid for it. The hotel food was presented like it was some kind of amazing French cuisine, but the food, while arranged nicely, tasted unremarkable and again, was overpriced. My final verdict is avoid this hotel if at all possible. It is simply not worth it.
I actually booked this reservation with the hotel over the phone and got a great rate -- much lower than the usual price! It was a lovely hotel, beautifully appointed, walking distance from the places we wanted to go. We would highly recommend the Fairmont. 
Just wanted to let everyone know if you are looking for a hotel with high rise construction next door the Swissotel Chicago is the one for you. My wife and I went there last year and there was just an empty lot next door, this year there is a loud construction site next door. So 8 am Saturday morning you will hear the workers starting. I am sure once the summer in Chicago comes around they will work all night. Just think as they keep adding floors you will be able to look the workers in the eye and wave from your room that used to have a view of the Navy Pier. Now you will get an up close and personal view of people pouring concrete. On top of it the hotel is doing construction of there own. The front of the hotel is block and lucky for us the protestors that are standing in front of the hotel were able to tell use where the new entrance was. The protestors were there because the Swissotel hired a company to redo their sound system that does not hire union workers. If you ask the workers about the noise and they say we can't hear it. I am sure the Swissotel does not want word getting out about this. If you insist on trying it for yourself don't pay for your room in advance they will not let you out of the room and then you are stuck.
The Hard Rock Hotel in Chicago has it all: location, comfort, and rockability! We stayed at the Hard Rock Hotel in Chicago recently and found it to be amazing! The location was perfect as it is walking distance to the Magnificent Mile, Navy Pier, and Lake Michigan. It was just a short ride by bus or cab to the sports stadiums, Shedd Aquarium or the Museum of Science and Industry! The food, although it was pricey, was great! There is a spa on site if you need a little time to relax and recoup after all that rockin', and if you have pets, they get the ROYAL treatment, complete with gifts! I would highly recommend the Hard Rock Hotel of Chicago! 
My husband and I were there for a conference and had booked the room thru their website, when called to confirm had us down for only 1 night instead of 4, easily changed. First morning cold,cold shower, didn't complain,next day fine. Phone did not work, called every day to complain, and every day said it would be fixed when got back to room, never was. No dial tone, unable to call restaurant, or call for car or call for room service. Finally, on last night someone came to our room while we were there and did fix it. The hotel is beautiful, rooms great and everyone was so nice, even when I was complaining they were nice. Great gym area also, and love the restaurant. BUT, for the money I could easily find another hotel just as nice with a working phone.
The Ambassador East is located in the Gold Coast neighborhood of Chicago. It is just a few blocks from the train station, so it was easy to get anywhere in town. The hotel is a National Historic Landmark so the lobby is elegant and beautiful. We loved the Pump Room bar with tons of B & W photos of celebrities. The service was wonderful and everyone was friendly and helpful. 
We were checked into a room with empty beer bottles, dirty underwear in the closet and unclean bathroom. There was no manager available for an hour to take any complaints. We missed our show because of the extra time it took in moving into another room etc. Finally when I got to talk to the manager and complained about beer bottles especially when I had a child and a teenager with me she offered to send me wine and cheese to make up for the inconvenience!!! Staff was somewhat reluctant to take request of extra blankets at night. They kept telling me to look into the closet for extra blankets. I asked for two blanket , but they delivered one. I had to keep calling to get settled. I saw a comment form from the prior guest in our room on the study desk, who had taken the trouble of filling it out, but no one collected it or cared for it. ht. Noisy rooms. Can hear the doors all night. Thebreakfast items kept running out and had to make calls to get them replenished. I will not recommend this hotel to any one even at discounted rates!!
During my latest business trip, both me and my wife recently stayed at the Omni Chicago Hotel in Chicago,Illinois, at one of their Deluxe suites. Unfortunately, and I think I speak for both of us, we were not fully satisfied with the hotel. The hotel advertises luxury-level accommodations, and while the rooms resemble what one can see in the pictures, the service is certainly sub-par. When one plans a stay at such an establishment, they expect a service that goes beyond having fresh towels in the bathroom when they check in. First of all, the air-conditioning in the room seemed to be in need of a new filter and when it was first turned on, the air coming out seemed musty. Second of all, the fitness center was only open until 10:30 pm. For people who like to exercise after dinner, this can certainly be a problem. Especially considering that it does not take much to have the fitness center available around the clock or until midnight. For these, as well as other similar reasons, I would not recommend this hotel, if one is looking for luxury accommodations.
I recently had a horrible stay at the InterContinental Hotel in Chicago. When I first arrived I was impressed with the architecture and location, but things went downhill in a hurry. The front desk staff was extremely rude upon checking in and even though I had reserved a room with two queen beds, they told me that "only king bed rooms were available at the time", and there was nothing they could do about it. The room itself was a nightmare. It smelled like an ashtray and it was very clear that the bedding was in dire need of replacement. There was also a huge problem with my television, in that it would automatically turn itself off every 15 minutes or so. I complained about these problems, but very little was done. The hotel staff eventually did bring me new sheets, but the quality was only marginally improved. Overall I was very disappointed with my stay at the InterContinental Hotel in Chicago. From the pictures I had seen online I had expected a wonderful hotel, but what I actually got was on par with what you would typically find at a rundown interstate motel.
We stayed for just one night ,but the hotel staff was extremely friendly and polite. The rooms were clean and large. The decor had just been redone. The best perks were the complimentary continental breakfast on each floor in the morning and the free cocktail hour with premium drinks and great appetizers at night. We got a great rate and would go back. Great location for walking around. 
The Millennium Knickerbocker Hotel has seen better days. I had fond memories of staying there when it was considered the finest hotel. I booked a room to celebrate a special occasion and found a highly-priced, not so great property. I had to look at five suites before I found one where the upholstered furniture was to my liking, some of the other rooms carpet was not clean, the refrigerator was dripping water, and the balcony was littered with cigarette butts. I finally settled for a room, only because the bellman was friendly and apologetic but as over priced as it was I should have turned around and walked out. I sent a letter to the management when I returned home, but it had been a month and I never received an answer. There are plenty of other places to spend your money. Don't leave it at this hotel.
We got a spanking deal at this hotel for $99 a night. It's in a good location to the Loop. Excellent transportation options abound. My gripe comes from the fact that we were obviously put in a "crappy" room. It overlooked the back of the building and the roof of a building next to us. The toilet in the room was not bolted to the floor. Other than that, if I needed to stay in the Loop again for something and I knew I wasn't going to be put in a undesirable room, I would stay here again.
Just back from a business trip. The Homewood is in a great location just off the Magnificent Mile, includes a great breakfast, heavy hors d'ouevres for dinner with beer and all for a pre-paid rate of $129. Without a doubt the best value in Chicago for a long, long time. 
I have just returned from a lovely shopping trip to Chicago. It is a very nice hotel, and I will love to stay there if I visit Chicago again! There is a lot of positive to say about the hotel; staff is excellent, never experienced such an excellent service -- that alone is worth coming back for. Was pleasantly surprised that the room rate was including breakfast. A few things that could make this hotel even better... A hand shower in the bathroom. The hairdryer to be placed in the bedroom, instead of the bathroom, when the bathroom is all damp after a shower I prefer leaving the bathroom to dry my hair. Free internet access in the lobby. I was surprised I had to pay 6 or 7 USD (for 15 minutes) to log-on and check-in with my airline (only with a few airlines you can check-in without paying?!?!?!?) 
This hotel had a great location, but you can do much better for the money. The hallways smelled of smoke, dirty elevators, furniture in the lobby was thread bare. The staff was very helpful. The room was large, bed comfortable but the room was so musty and old smoke lingered. If you have any allergies don't stay here!
